THE LAWS OF THE GAME OF FOOTBALL, AS PLAYED BY THE RUGBY FOOTBALL UNION.

I. Introduction.

1.—The Rugby Game of Football should be played by 15 players on each side. (Any one coming under the laws of professionalism shall not be allowed to take part in any game under this Union’s jurisdiction). The field-of-play shall not exceed 110 yards in length, nor 75 in breadth, and shall be as near these dimensions as practicable. The lines defining the boundary of the field-of-play shall be suitably marked, and shall be called the goal-lines at the ends and the touch-lines at the sides. On each goal-line and equidistant from the touch-lines shall be two upright posts, called goal posts, exceeding 11 feet in height, and placed 18 feet 6 inches apart, and joined by a cross-bar 10 feet from the ground; and the object of the game shall be to kick the ball over this cross-bar and between the posts. The game shall be played with an oval ball of as nearly as possible the following size and weight, namely—
Length 11 to 11 1/4 in.
Length circumference 30 to 31 in.
Width circumference 25 1/2 to 26 in.
Weight 13 to 14 1/2 ozs.
Hand sewn and not less than 8 stitches to the inch.

II. Glossary—Duties of Officials—Scoring.

2.—The following terms occur in the laws, and have the respective meanings attached to each:—
Dead-Ball Line.—Not more than 25 yards behind and equidistant from each goal line, and parallel thereto, shall be lines, which shall be called the Dead-Ball Lines, and if the ball or player holding the ball touch or cross these lines the ball shall be dead and out of play.
In-Goal.—Those portions of the ground immediately at the ends of the field-of-play and between the touch-lines, produced to the dead-ball lines, are called In-Goal. The goal-lines are in-goal.
Touch.—Those portions of the ground immediately at the sides of the field-of-play and between the goal-lines, if produced, are called Touch. The touch-lines and all posts and flags marking these lines, or the centre, or 25 yards lines, are in touch.
Touch-in-Goal.—Those portions of the ground immediately at the four corners of the field-of-play, and between the goal and touch-lines, if respectively produced, are called Touch-in-Goal. The corner posts and flags are in Touch-in-Goal.
A Drop-kick is made by letting the ball fall from the hands, and kicking it the very instant it rises.
A Place-kick is made by kicking the ball after it has been placed on the ground.
A Punt is made by letting the ball fall from the hands and kicking it before it touches the ground.
A Tackle is when the holder of the ball is held by one or more players of the opposite side.
A Scrummage, which can only take place in the field-of-play, is when the ball is put down between players who have closed round on their respective sides, and who must have both feet on the ground.
A Try is gained by the player who first puts his hand on the ball on the ground in his opponents’ In-goal.
A Touch-Down is when a player touches down as above in his own In-goal.
A Goal is obtained by kicking the ball from the field-of-play, except from a punt, from a kick-off, or from a drop-out, direct (i.e., without touching the ground or any player of either side) over the opponents’ cross-bar whether it touch such cross-bar or the goal posts or not.
Knocking-on and Throwing-Forward, are propelling the ball by the hand or arm in the direction of the opponents’ In-goal: a throw out of touch cannot be claimed as a throw-forward.
A Fair-Catch, is a catch made direct from a kick or knock-on, or throw forward by one of the opposite side, the catcher must immediately claim the same by making a mark with his heel at the spot where he made the catch.
Kick-off is a place kick from the centre of the field-of-play; the opposite side may not stand within ten yards of the ball, nor charge until the ball be kicked, otherwise another kick-off shall be allowed. If the ball pitch in touch, the opposite side may have it kicked off again.
Drop-out is a drop-kick from within 25 yards of the kicker’s goal line; within which distance the opposite side may not charge, otherwise another drop-out shall be allowed. If the ball pitch in touch the opposite side may have it dropped out again.
At kick-off the ball must reach the limit of ten yards, and at drop-out must reach the 25 yards line. If otherwise, the opposite side may have the ball re-kicked, or scrummaged, at the centre or in the middle of the 25 yards line, as the case may be.
Off-Side. See Laws 7 and 8.

3.—In all matches a Referee and two Touch-Judges must be appointed, the former being mutually agreed upon. The Referee must carry a whistle, the blowing of which shall stop the game; he must whistle in the following cases:—
(a.) When a player makes and claims a fair catch.
(b.) When he notices rough or foul play or misconduct. For the first offence he shall either caution the player or order him off the ground, but for the second offence he must order him off. If ordered off, the player must be reported by him to this Union.
(c.) When he considers that the continuation of play is dangerous.
(d.) When he wishes to stop the game for any purpose.
(e.) If the ball or a player running with the ball touch him.
(f.) At half-time and no-side, he being the sole timekeeper, having sole power to allow extra time for delays, but he shall not whistle for half-time or no-side until the ball be held or out of play.
(g.) When he notices any irregularity of play whereby the side committing such gain an advantage.
(h.) When he notices a breach of Laws 5 and 15.
(i.) When he wishes to enforce any penalty under Law 11.
The Referee shall be sole judge in all matters of fact, but as to matters of law, there shall be the right of appeal to the Rugby Union.
The Touch-Judges shall carry flags, and shall each take one side of the ground, outside the field-of-play, and the duty of each shall be to hold up his flag when and where the ball goes into touch, and also to assist the Referee, if requested by him, at kicks at goal.

4.—The Captains of the respective sides shall toss for the choice of In-goal or the kick-off. Each side shall play an equal time from each In-goal, and a match shall be won by a majority of points; if no point be scored, or the number be equal, the match shall be drawn.
The following shall be the mode of scoring:—
A Try equals 3 points
A Penalty Goal equals 3 points
A Goal from a Try (in which case the try shall not count) equals 5 points
Any other Goal equals 4 points

5.—At the time of the kick-off all the kicker’s side shall be behind the ball; if any are in front, the Referee shall blow his whistle and order a scrummage where the kick-off took place. The game shall be restarted by a kick-off.
(a.) After a goal, by the side losing such goal, and
(b.) After half-time by the opposite side to that which started the game.

III. Mode of Play—Definitions.

6.—When once the game is started, the ball may be kicked or picked up and run with by any player who is on-side, at any time; except that it may not be picked up—
(a.) In a Scrummage.
(b.) When it has been put down after it has been fairly held.
(c.) When it is on the ground after a player has been tackled.
It may be passed or knocked from one player to another provided it be not passed, knocked or thrown forward. If a player while holding or running with the ball be tackled and the ball fairly held, he MUST at once put it fairly down between him and his opponents’ Goal-line.

7.—A player is placed off-side if he enters a scrummage from his opponents’ side, or if the ball has been kicked, touched, or is being run with by one of his own side behind him. A player can be off-side in his opponents’ In-goal, but not in his own, except where one of his side takes a free kick behind his goal line, in which case all of his side must be behind the ball when kicked.

8.—An off-side player is placed on side:—
(a.) When an opponent has run five yards with the ball.
(b.) When the ball has been kicked by, or has touched an opponent.
(c.) When one of his side has run in front of him with the ball.
(d.) When one of his side has run in front of him, having kicked the ball when behind him.
An off-side player shall not play the ball, nor during the time an opponent has the ball, run, tackle, or actively or passively obstruct, nor may he approach within ten yards of any player waiting for the ball; on any breach of this law, the opposite side shall be awarded, at their option:—
(e.) A free kick, the place of such breach being taken as the mark.
(f.) A scrummage at the spot where the ball was last played by the offending side before such breach occurred.
Except in the case of unintentional off-side, when a scrummage shall be formed where such breach occurred.

9.—If a player makes a fair catch he shall be awarded a free kick, even though the whistle has been blown for a knock-on, and he himself must either kick or place the ball.

10.—All free kicks may be place-kicks, drop-kicks, or punts, but must be in the direction of the opponents’ goal line, and across the kicker’s goal line, if kicked from behind the same. They may be taken at any spot behind the mark in a line parallel to the touch lines. If taken by drop or punt the catcher must take the kick, if taken by a place-kick the catcher must place the ball. In all cases the kicker’s side must be behind the ball when it is kicked, except the player who may be placing the ball for a place kick. In case of any infringement of this law the Referee shall order a scrummage at the mark. The opposite side may come up to, and charge from anywhere on or behind a line drawn through the mark and parallel to the goal lines, and may charge as soon as the catcher commences to run or offers to kick or places the ball on the ground for a place kick, but in case of a drop kick or punt the kicker may always draw back, and unless he has dropped the ball the opposite side must retire to the line of the mark. But if any of the opposite side do charge before the player having the ball commences to run or offers to kick, or the ball has touched the ground for a place kick (and this applies to tries at goal as well as free kicks), provided the kicker has not taken his kick, the charge may be disallowed.

IV. Penalties.

11.—Free kicks by way of penalties shall be awarded if any player—
(a.) Intentionally either handles the ball, or falls down in a scrummage, or picks the ball out of a scrummage.
(b.) Having the ball does not immediately put it down in front of him, on it being held.
(c.) Being on the ground, does not immediately get up.
(d.) Prevents an opponent getting up, or putting the ball down.
(e.) Illegally tackles, charges, or obstructs as in law 8, &c.
(f.) Wilfully holds an opponent who has not got the ball.
(g.) Wilfully hacks, hacks-over, or trips-up.
(h.) Wilfully puts the ball unfairly into a scrummage, or, the ball having come out, wilfully shoves it forward with his hands again into the scrummage.
(i.) Not himself running at the ball, charges or obstructs an opponent not holding the ball.
(j.) Shouts “all on side,” or words to that effect, when his players are not on side.
(k.) Not in a scrummage wilfully obstructs his opponents’ backs by standing on his opponents’ side of the ball when it is in a scrummage.
(l.) Wilfully prevents the ball being fairly put into a scrummage.
(m.) If any player or team wilfully and systematically break any law or laws for which the penalty is only a scrummage. Wilfully and systematically cause unnecessary loss of time.
The places of infringement shall be taken as the mark, and any one of the side granted the free kick may place or kick the ball.

V. General.

12.—The ball is in touch when it or a player carrying it, touch or cross the touch line; it shall then belong to the side opposite to that last touching it in the field of play, except when carried in. One of the side to whom the ball belongs shall bring it into play at the spot where it went into touch, by one of the following methods:—
(a.) Bounding it on the field-of-play at right-angles to the touch-line. After bounding it he may catch it, and then run with it, kick it, or pass it. When catching it he must have both feet in the field of play.
(b.) Throwing it out so as to alight at right-angles to the touch-line, or
(c.) Scrummaging it at any spot at right angles to the touch-line, between 5 and 15 yards from the place where it went into touch.
If the referee blows his whistle because the ball has been thrown out so as not to alight at right angles to the touch line, the opposite side shall bring it out as in (c).

13.—When the side has scored a try, the ball shall be brought from the spot where the try was gained into the field-of-play in a line parallel to the touch-lines, such distance as the placer thinks proper, and there he shall place the ball for one of his side to try and kick a goal; this place-kick is governed by Law 10 as to charging, &c., the mark being taken as on the goal-line. It is the duty of the defending side to see that the ball is taken out straight.
The Referee shall award a try, if, in his opinion, one would undoubtedly have been obtained but for unfair play or interference of the defending side. Or, he shall disallow a try, and adjudge a touch-down, if, in his opinion, a try would undoubtedly not have been gained but for unfair play or interference of the attacking side. In case of a try so allowed the kick at goal shall be taken at any point on a line parallel to the touch lines, and passing through the spot where the ball was when such unfair play or interference took place.

14.—If the ball, when over the goal-line and in possession of a player, be fairly held by an opposing player before it is grounded, it shall be scrummaged 5 yards from the goal-line, opposite the spot where the ball was held.

15.—After an unsuccessful try, or touch-down, or if the ball after crossing the goal-line go into touch-in-goal or touch, or cross the dead-ball line, it shall be brought into play by means of a drop-out, when all the kicker’s side must be behind the ball when kicked; in case any are in front, the Referee shall order a scrummage on the 25 yards line and equidistant from the touch-lines.

16.—In case of a throw-forward or knock-on, the ball shall be at once brought back to where such infringement took place and there put down, unless a fair catch has been made and claimed, or unless the opposite side gain an advantage. If the ball, or a player running with the ball touch a Referee, it shall there be put down.

17.—If a player shall wilfully kick, pass, or carry the ball back across his own goal-line and it there be made dead, the opposite side may claim that the ball shall be brought back and a scrummage formed at the spot whence it was kicked, passed, knocked or carried back. Under any other circumstances a player may touch the ball down in his own In-goal.

18.—Hacking, hacking-over, or tripping-up are illegal. The Referee shall have full power to decide what part of a player’s dress, including boots and projections thereon, buckles, rings, etc., are dangerous, and having once decided that any part is dangerous shall order such player to remove the same, and shall not allow him to take further part in the game until such be removed.

19.—In case of any law being infringed in In-goal by the attacking side, a touch-down shall be awarded, but where such breach is committed by the defending side, a scrummage shall be awarded 5 yards from the goal-line, opposite to the spot where the breach occurred.
But in the case of any law being broken, or any irregularity of play occurring on the part of either side not otherwise provided for, the ball shall be taken back to the place where the breach of the law or irregularity of play occurred, and a scrummage formed there.

20.—There shall be an annual close time, during which it is illegal to play football where gate money is taken, such close time being between 20th April and the first of September.



THE RUGBY FOOTBALL UNION.
The following circular has been issued by the International Board with the approval of the Committee of this Union and of the Scottish, Irish and Welsh Unions. The Committee desires that all players and referees within its jurisdiction shall be guided thereby.
G. ROWLAND HILL, Sept. 1899. Hon. Sec.

INTERNATIONAL BOARD.
Circular Letter addressed to players and Referees. Sept., 1899.
Between two and three years ago the Board addressed a circular letter to those gentlemen who undertake the duties of referees. Since then this Board and the various Unions have given rulings on various points of law, and the Board think it would be highly advantageous if such were brought together and explained, so that both players and referee may in the future fully understand them and also act up to them. This circular is, therefore, addressed to both players and referees, and although it may appear to touch upon many points which are perfectly clear and simple, yet one or other of the Unions have had appeals on all the points raised.

Introduction: 
Firstly, it is the duty of the visiting team to see that the ground complies with Law 1 as to size, and is properly marked, that the dead-ball line is distinct, &c. If they fail to see to these points before the game begins, no appeal can afterwards be entertained in relation thereto.

Glossary: 
A Rebound is not a knock-on, and therefore no fair-catch can be made therefrom or penalty given. This is important, as some referees appear to regard a rebound as a knock-on.
A Fair-Catch can only be claimed by the catcher making his mark after he has caught the ball; the mark, however, must be made as soon after the ball is caught as possible; and in practice, referees might allow a claim when the mark was simultaneously made with the catching. A fair-catch can be made in a player’s own in-goal.
If a player goes beyond the 25 yards to drop-out, or if he punts, the referee must blow his whistle and order the player to take a new kick, which must be a drop within the 25 yards limit.
All grounds should be properly marked out, including the half-way, 25 yards, touch, goal and dead-ball lines (unless other boundaries form these latter), in which case flags at the half-way and 25 yards lines are unnecessary; if they be used, they should be set well back from the touch-lines. Corner flags should be used, and should be at the junction of the touch and goal-lines. If a player holding the ball touch one of these, the ball must be considered as in touch-in-goal. A player may himself be in touch-in-goal and yet play the ball with his foot if the ball be not touch-in-goal, or he may touch it down with his hand.

Referee Whistling: 
No power is given to a REFEREE to blow his whistle simply because a player is tackled with the ball, and this is one of the most important points to which the Board wish to direct the attention of players and referees, as the present habit of whistling the moment a man is tackled is simply spoiling the game by slowing it down and taking away any advantage a side of quick followers up would otherwise gain.
When a player with the ball is tackled and the ball fairly held, a referee may only blow his whistle for one of the following cases:—
(1) Law 11 (b) When such player does not at once fairly put the ball down.
(2) Law 11 (c) When such player is on the ground and he does not at once fairly part with the ball, and either get up or roll away from the ball.
(3) Law 11 (d) When a player of the opposite side prevents such player either putting the ball down or getting up.
(4) Law 3 (c) When the referee considers that the continuation of play would be dangerous.
This latter point must be left entirely to the referee, but the Board wish to point out that if the tackled player played the laws in the spirit in which they are written, and at once fairly parted with the ball, very few cases of danger would arise, but by holding on a short time danger may arise. In such a case, the referee should blow and award the penalty of a free kick instead of simply ordering a scrummage on the plea of danger, as by so doing he deprives one side of an advantage and does not inflict a penalty on the other, both of which are deserved.
If a player be hurt, the referee should not blow his whistle till the ball be dead, unless such hurt player is in a position that continuance of play might entail further danger.
While speaking of the referee, the Board would like to point out that once a referee has ordered a player off the ground he cannot allow him again to take part in the game, and must report him; and further, if a player with the ball touch the referee in his opponents’ in-goal a try shall be allowed at the spot where he so touched him.

Referee & Touch-Judges: 
A referee, once he has given a decision, cannot alter it, and his decision alone is final; he may, however, consult the touch-judges in cases of touch and touch-in-goal play, and may ask them to assist him at kicks at goal. Under all circumstances, the referee’s whistle must stop the game, even if blown inadvertently; and the referee’s decision as to time must be final, even if he has kept it inaccurately. On no account must a referee consult with any outsider, except in the case of a failure of his watch, when he should in the first instance consult the touch-judges.

Players’ positions: 
A player may play in any position so long as he is on-side and does not obstruct his opponents; he may come up to a scrimmage and attempt to hook the ball out with his foot, provided his other foot is behind the ball.
The Board desire that referees should more strictly enforce these penalties, and would point out that a referee should award a free kick if he thinks a fair-catch would have been made had not an offside player, through his proximity and not retiring beyond the 5 yards limit, have rendered such catch more difficult.
It is the opinion of this Board that referees too often give offending players the benefit of unintentional off-side, instead of inflicting the free-kick penalty.

Laws 9 & 10: 
In cases of tries and free-kicks, any player may place or kick the ball; in cases of fair-catches, the catcher only may place the ball, drop, or punt it.
In cases of players waiting to charge when a kick after a try, fair-catch, or free-kick is about to be taken, they must remain behind the goal line or behind the mark with both feet, and any standing over the goal line or over the mark with one foot shall be considered to have charged, and the referee shall blow his whistle and award no charge; the referee shall also be particular that any side waiting behind a mark do not gradually creep up beyond the mark, such shall be considered as a charge. When a player is placing the ball he shall not wilfully do anything which may lead his opponents to think he has put the ball down when he has not; if he does, the charge shall not be disallowed. Even when a charge has been disallowed, the would-be chargers may, provided they remain behind the mark, jump up and attempt to stop or touch the ball; if they so touch it, no goal can be scored.
If a referee whistles to allow a no-charge just as the kicker takes his kick, such kicker shall have the option of another kick—that is, if he has kicked a goal, he can allow it to stand, if he has not, he can take a second kick.
After a charge has been disallowed, any player except the kicker may place or replace the ball, and he may alter the spot for the place kick.

Rule 11: 
Sub-section (f) Lifting of foot in a scrimmage has been deleted.
New sub-section (f) has been added which gives a free kick penalty for wilfully holding an opponent who has not got the ball.
New sub-sections (g) and (j) have also been added giving penalties of free kicks for (g) wilfully backing or tripping up (although a penalty of a free kick is now given, the referee should still caution a player, or even order him off the ground, if such hacking or tripping up constituted rough play), and (j) shouting on-side when his players are not yet on-side. This is intended to chiefly apply to a back having kicked the ball and while following up shouting on-side when he has not yet placed his side on-side—a most unfair practice.
In the Board’s circular of 1897 it was pointed out in relation to sub-section (k) (then lettered (h)) that “this prohibits the habit of three-quarters and half-backs standing in front of the ball, so as to mark the opposing backs, and should be strictly enforced.” The Board, whilst now wishful to emphasise this, would also point out that it is not intended thereby to penalise a half-back who unintentionally over-runs the ball in a scrummage.

Rule 12: 
The wording of the last paragraph has been altered so as to give the opposite side the right to bring the ball out, if not originally thrown out straight.
If the ball has not been fairly bounded into play, or not bounded or thrown at the right place, the referee shall order that the same side shall bound or throw in at the proper place.
A player may be in touch and yet play the ball, if the ball be not in touch.
A ball kicked over the touch line and blown back shall be considered as in touch.
A ball from a kick-off having reached 10 yards and then be blown back shall be considered as in play; as also a ball having reached the 25 yards line from a drop out. Also a goal is scored if the ball has crossed the bar, although it may be blown back afterwards.

Law 17: 
Heeling back over own goal-line shall be considered as wilfully kicking back. If, when a ball is passed back, the would-be receiver fumbles it so that it goes over his own goal-line, the referee shall decide whether such fumble were intentional or not, and decide accordingly.
A kicker and a placer must be distinct persons, and the kicker may not under any circumstances touch the ball when on the ground, even though the charge has been disallowed.
In case of any dispute relative to a try, where it is possible an appeal may be made to this Board. Referees are recommended to allow a kick at goal, so that if this Board afterwards allows the try, the goal points may be added if the kick was successful.