RULES.

i. Fair catch, is a catch direct from the foot.

ii. Off side. A player is off his side if the ball has touched one of his own side behind him, until the other side touch it.

iii. First of his side, is the player nearest the ball on his side.

iv. A knock on, as distinguished from a throw on, consists in striking the ball on with the arm or hand.

v. Try at goal. A ball touched between the goal-posts may be brought up to either of them, but not between. The ball when punted must be within, when caught without the line of goal: the ball must be place-kicked and not dropped, even though it touch two hands, and it must go over the bar and between the posts without having touched the dress or person of any player. No goal may be kicked from touch.

vi. Kick off from middle, must be a place.

vii. Kick out must not be from more than ten yards out of goal if a place-kick, not more than twenty-five yards, if a punt, drop, or knock on.

viii. Running in is allowed to any player on his side, provided he does not take the ball off the ground, or take it through touch.

ix. Charging is fair, in case of a place-kick, as soon as a ball has touched the ground; in case of a kick from a catch, as soon as the player’s foot has left the ground, and not before.

x. Off side. No player being off his side shall kick the ball in any case whatever.

xi. No player being off his side shall hack, charge, run in, touch the ball in goal, or interrupt a catch.

xii. A player when off his side having a fair catch is entitled to a fair knock on, and in no other case.

xiii. A player being off his side shall not touch the ball on the ground, except in touch.

xiv. A player being off his side cannot put on his side himself, or any other player, by knocking or throwing on the ball.

xv. Touch. A player may not in any case run with the ball in or through touch.

xvi. A player standing up to another may hold one arm only, but may hack him or knock the ball out of his hand if he attempt to kick it, or go beyond the line of touch.

xvii. No agreement between two players to send the ball straight out shall be allowed on big side.

xviii. A player having touched the ball straight for a tree, and touched the tree with it, may drop from either side if he can, but the opposite side may oblige him to go to his own side of the tree.

xix. A player touching the ball off his side must throw it straight out.

xx. All matches are drawn after five days, but after three if no goal has been kicked.

xxi. Two big-side balls must always be in the Close during a match or big-side.

xxii. The discretion of sending into goal rests with the heads of sides or houses.[a]

xxiii. No football shall be played between the goals till the Sixth match.

xxiv. Heads of sides, or two deputies appointed by them, are the sole arbiters of all disputes.

xxv. No strangers, in any match, may have a place kick at goal.

[a] Deputies may be allowed to act by the head of the School-side, at the Sixth match.

xxvi. No hacking with the heel, or above the knee, is fair.

xxvii. No player but the first on his side, may be hacked, except in a scrummage.

xxviii. No player may wear projecting nails or iron plates on the heels or soles of his shoes or boots.

xxix. No player may take the ball out of the Close.

xxx. No player may stop the ball with anything but his own person.

xxxi. Nobody may wear cap or jersey without leave from the head of his house.

xxxii. At a big-side, the two players highest in the School shall toss up.

xxxiii. The Island is all in goal.

xxxiv. At little sides the goals shall be four paces wide, and in kicking a goal the ball must pass out of the reach of any player present.

xxxv. Three Præpostors constitute a big-side.

xxxvi. If a player take a punt when he is not entitled to it, the opposite side may take a punt or drop, without running if the ball has not touched two hands.

xxxvii. No player may be held, unless he is himself holding the ball.

As these Rules have now become the Laws of the game, it is hoped that all who take an interest in Football will contribute all in their power to enforce their observance.