Definitions

Actual time: Elapsed time including time lost for any reason.
Advantage: Law 8 - Advantage.
Assistant referee: Law 6 - Match Officials.
Attacking team: The opponents of the defending team in whose half of the ground play is taking place.
Ball carrier: A player carrying the ball.
Beyond or behind or in front of a position: Means with both feet, except where the context makes that inappropriate.
Binding: Grasping firmly another player's body between the shoulders and the hips with the whole arm in contact from hand to shoulder.
Captain: The captain is a player nominated by the team. Only the captain is entitled to consult the referee during the match and is solely responsible for choosing options relating to the referee's decisions.
Cavalry charge: Law 10 - Foul Play.
Conversion kick: Law 9 - Method of Scoring.
Converted: A conversion kick that was successful.
Dangerous play: Law 10 - Foul Play.
Dead: The ball is out of play. This happens when the ball has gone outside the playing area and remained there, or when the referee has blown the whistle to indicate a stoppage in play, or when a conversion kick has been taken.
Dead ball line: Law 1 - The Ground.
Defending team: The team in whose half of the ground play is taking place; their opponents are the attacking team.
Drop kick: The ball is dropped from the hand or hands to the ground and kicked as it rises from its first bounce.
Drop out: Law 13 - Kick Off and Restart Kicks.
Dropped goal: Law 9 - Method of Scoring.
Field of play: Law 1 - The Ground.
Flanker: Forward player who usually wears jersey No. 6 or No. 7.
Flying wedge: Law 10 - Foul Play.
Foul play: Law 10 - Foul Play.
Free kick: Law 21 - Penalty and Free Kicks. A kick awarded to the non-offending team after an infringement by its opponents. Unless a Law states otherwise, a free kick awarded because of an infringement is awarded at the place of infringement.
Front row players: Law 20 - Scrum. The forward players who are the loose-head prop, the hooker and the tight-head prop. These players usually wear jersey No. 1, 2 and 3 respectively.
Goal: A player scores a goal by kicking the ball over an opponents' crossbar and between the goal posts from the field of play, by a place kick or drop-kick. A goal cannot be scored from a kick-off, drop-out or free kick.
Goal line: Law 1 - The Ground.
Grounding the ball: Law 22 - In-Goal.
Half-time: The interval between the two halves of the game.
Hand-off: An action taken by a ball carrier to fend off an opponent by using the palm of the hand.
Hindmost foot: The foot of the hindmost player in a scrum, ruck or maul which is nearest that player's goal-line.
Hooker: Law 20 - Scrum. The middle front row player in a scrum who usually wears jersey No. 2.
In-field: Away from touch and towards the middle of the field.
In-goal: Law 22 - In-Goal.
Kick: A kick is made by hitting the ball with any part of the leg or foot, except the heel, from the toe to the knee but not including the knee; a kick must move the ball a visible distance out of the hand, or along the ground.
Kick-off: Law 13 - Kick-off and Restart Kicks.
Knock-on: Law 12 - Knock-on or Throw-forward.
Lineout: Law 19 - Touch and Lineout.
Line of touch: Law 19 - Touch and Lineout. An imaginary line at right angles to the touchline at the place where the ball is thrown in from touch.
Lineout: Law 19 - Touch and Lineout.
Line through the mark or place: Unless stated otherwise, a line parallel to the touchline.
Long throw: Law 19 - Touch and Lineout.
Loose-head prop: Law 20 - Scrum. The left front row player in a scrum who usually wears jersey No. 1.
Match organiser: The organisation responsible for the match which may be a Union, a group of Unions or an organisation affiliated to World Rugby.
Mark: Law 18 - Mark.
Maul: Law 17 - Maul.
Near: Within one metre.
Obstruction: Law 10 - Foul Play.
Offside: Law 11 - Offside and Onside in General Play.
Offside line: An imaginary line across the ground, from one touchline to the other, parallel to the goal-lines; the position of this line varies according to the Law.
Offside under the 10-Metre Law: Law 11 - Offside and Onside in General Play.
Onside: Law 11 - Offside and Onside in General Play.
Open or bleeding wound: Law 3 - Number of Players - The Team.
Out of play: This happens when the ball or the ball carrier has gone into touch or touch-in-goal, or touched or crossed the dead ball line.
Oversteps: A player steps across a line with one or both feet; the line may be real (for example, goal-line) or imaginary (for example, offside line).
Pass: A player throws the ball to another player; if a player hands the ball to another player without throwing it, this is also a pass.
Peeling off: Law 19 - Touch and Lineout.
Penalty goal: Law 9 - Method of Scoring.
Penalty kick: Law 21 - Penalty and Free Kicks - A kick awarded to the non-offending team after an infringement by its opponents. Unless a Law says otherwise, a penalty kick is awarded at the place of infringement.
Penalty try: Law 10 - Foul Play.
Place kick: The ball is kicked after it has been placed on the ground for that purpose.
Placer: A player who holds the ball on the ground for a team-mate to kick.
Played: The ball is played when it is touched by a player.
Playing area: Law 1 - The Ground.
Playing enclosure: Law 1 - The Ground.
Playing time: The time that has been played excluding time lost as defined in Law 5 - Time.
Possession: This happens when a player is carrying the ball or a team has the ball in its control; for example, the ball in one half of a scrum or ruck is in that team's possession.
Pre-gripping: Law 19 - Touch and Lineout. Gripping a team-mate in the lineout prior to the ball being thrown in.
Prop: Law 20 - Scrum. A front row player to the left or right of the hooker in a scrum. These players usually wear jersey No. 1 and 3.
Punt: The ball is dropped from the hand or hands and kicked before it touches the ground.
Pushover try: Law 22 - In-Goal.
Receiver: Law 19 - Touch and Lineout.
Red Card: A card, red in colour, shown to a player who has been sent off for contravening Law 10 - Foul Play, Law 4.5(c).
Referee: Law 6 - Match Officials.
Repeated infringements: Law 10 - Foul Play.
Replacements: Law 3 - Number of Players - The Team.
Ruck: Law 16 - Ruck.
Sanction: The punitive action taken by the referee against an infringing player or team.
Scrum: Law 20 - Scrum. This happens when players from each team come together in scrum formation so that play can be started by throwing the ball into the scrum.
Scrum half: A player nominated to throw the ball into a scrum who usually wears jersey No. 9.
Sin bin: The designated area in which a temporarily suspended player must remain for 10 minutes playing time.
Substitutes: Law 3 - Number of Players - The Team.
Tackle: Law 15 - Tackle: Ball Carrier Brought to the Ground.
Team-mate: Another player of the same team.
Temporarily suspended: Law 10 - Foul Play.
The plan: Law 1 - The Ground.
The 22: Law 1 - The Ground.
Throw-forward: Law 12 - Knock-on or Throw-Forward.
Throw-in: The act of the player who throws the ball into a scrum or a lineout.
Tight-head prop: Law 20 - Scrum. The right front row player in a scrum who usually wears jersey No. 3.
Touch: Law 19 - Touch and Lineout.
Touch down: Law 22 - In-goal.
Touchline: Law 1 - The Ground.
Touch-in-goal line: Law 1 - The Ground.
Touch judge: Law 6 - Match Officials.
Try: Law 9 - Method of Scoring.
Uncontested scrum: An uncontested scrum is the same as a normal scrum, except that the teams do not compete for the ball, the team throwing in the ball must win it, and neither team is allowed to push.
Union: The controlling body under whose jurisdiction the match is played; for an international match it means World Rugby or a Committee of World Rugby.
Yellow card: A card, yellow in colour, shown to a player who has been cautioned and temporarily suspended for 10 minutes playing time.

Before the match
Law 1 The Ground
Law 2 The Ball
Law 3 Number of Players - The Team
Law 4 Players’ Clothing
Law 5 Time
Law 6 Match Officials

Law 1 The Ground
The Plan

Playing area
Field of play

Definitions
The Ground is the total area shown on the plan.
The Field of play is the area (as shown on the plan) between the goal lines and the touchlines. These lines are not part of the field of play.
The Playing Area is the field of play and the In-goal area. The touchlines, touch-in-goal lines and dead ball lines are not part of the playing area.
The Playing Enclosure is the playing area and a space around it, not less than 5 metres where practicable, which is known as the perimeter area.
In-goal is the area between the goal line and the dead ball line and between the touch-in-goal lines. It includes the goal line but it does not include the dead ball line or the touch-in-goal lines.
The '22' is the area between the goal line and the 22-metre line, including the 22-metre line but excluding the goal line.
The Plan, including all the words and figures on it, is part of the Laws.

1.1 Surface of the playing enclosure
(a) Requirement. The surface must be safe to play on at all times.
(b) Type of surface. The surface should be grass but may also be sand, clay, snow or artificial grass. The game may be played on snow, provided the snow and underlying surface are safe to play on. It shall not be a permanently hard surface such as concrete or asphalt. In case of artificial grass surfaces, they must conform to World Rugby Regulation 22.

1.2 Required dimensions for the playing enclosure
(a) Dimensions. The field of play does not exceed 100 metres in length. Each in-goal does not exceed 22 metres in length. The playing area does not exceed 70 metres in width.
(b) The length and breadth of the playing area are to be as near as possible to the dimensions indicated. All the areas are rectangular.
(c) The distance from the goal line to the dead ball line will preferably be not less than 10 metres.
(d) In respect of:
(i) Matches between the senior national representative team or the next senior national representative team of a Union against the senior or next senior national representative team of another Union; and
(ii) International seven-a-side matches;
the dimensions should be as close to the maximum sizes as possible, and not less than 90 metres in length for the field of play, 68 metres in width, and with a minimum in-goal length of 6 metres. Unions wishing to vary minimum or maximum dimensions should apply for dispensation to World Rugby.
(e) The perimeter area should not be less than 5 metres where practicable.

1.3 Lines on the playing enclosure
(a) Solid Lines
The dead ball lines and touch-in-goal lines, both of which are outside the in-goal areas.
The goal lines, which are within the in-goal areas but outside the field of play;
The 22-metre lines, which are parallel to the goal lines;
The half way line which is parallel to the goal lines; and
The touchlines which are outside the field of play.

(b) Dash Lines
All lines other than solid lines are dash lines, all of which are 5 metres in length.
There are two sets of dash lines which are 10 metres from, and parallel to, each side of the half way line. These are called the 10 metre dash lines. The 10 metre dash lines intersect the dash lines which are 5 metres and 15 metres parallel to each touch line.
There are two sets of dash lines which are 5 metres from, and parallel to, each touch line. They run from the 5 metre dash lines, which are parallel to each goal line and intersect the 22 metre lines, both 10 metre dash lines and the half way line. These are called the 5 metre dash lines.
There are two sets of dash lines which are 15 metres from, and parallel to, each touch line. These dash lines run from the 5 metre dash lines which are parallel to each goal line, and intersect both 22 metre lines, both 10 metre dash lines and the half way line. These are called the 15 metre dash lines.
There are six dash lines 5 metres from, and parallel to, each goal line. Two dash lines are positioned 5 metres and 15 metres from each touch line. A further two dash lines are positioned in front of each goal post so that there is 5 metres between these dash lines.

(c) Centre
There is one line 0.5 metre long that intersects the centre of the half way line.

1.4 Dimensions for goal posts and crossbar
(a) The distance between the two goal posts is 5.6 metres.
(b) The crossbar is placed between the two goal posts so that its top edge is 3.0 metres from the ground.
(c) The minimum height of the goal posts is 3.4 metres.
(d) When padding is attached to the goal posts the distance from the goal line to the exterior edge of the padding must not exceed 300mm.

1.5 Flag posts
(a) There are 14 flag posts with flags, each with a minimum height of 1.2 metres above the ground.
(b) Flag posts must be positioned at the intersection of touch-in-goal lines and the goal lines and at the intersection of the touch-in-goal lines and the dead ball lines. These eight flag posts are outside the in-goal area and do not form part of the playing area.
(c) Flag posts must be positioned in line with the 22-metre lines and the half way line, 2 metres outside the touchlines and within the playing enclosure.

1.6 Objections to the ground
(a) If either team has objections about the ground or the way it is marked out they must tell the referee before the match starts.
(b) The referee will attempt to resolve the issues but must not start a match if any part of the ground is considered to be dangerous.

2.1 Shape
The ball must be oval and made of four panels.

2.2 Dimensions
Length in line: 280-300 millimetres
Circumference (end to end): 740-770 millimetres
Circumference (in width): 580-620 millimetres

2.3 Materials
Leather or suitable synthetic material. It may be treated to make it water resistant and easier to grip.

2.4 Weight
410-460 grams.

2.5 Air pressure at the start of play
65.71-68.75 kilopascals, or 0.67-0.70 kilograms per square centimetre, or 9.5-10.0 lbs per square inch.

2.6 Spare balls
Spare balls may be available during a match, but a team must not gain or attempt to gain an unfair advantage by using them or changing them.

2.7 Smaller balls
Balls of different sizes may be used for matches between young players.

Law 3 Number of Players - The Team
Definitions
A Team: A team consists of fifteen players who start the match plus any authorised replacements and/or substitutes.
Replacement: A player who replaces an injured team-mate.
Substitute: A player who replaces a team-mate for tactical reasons.

3.1 Maximum number of players on the playing area
Maximum: each team must have no more than fifteen players on the playing area during play.

3.2 Team with more than the permitted number
Objection: at any time before or during a match a team may make an objection to the referee about the number of players in their opponents' team. As soon as the referee knows that a team has too many players, the referee must order the captain of that team to reduce the number appropriately. The score at the time of the objection remains unaltered.
Sanction: Penalty at the place where the match would restart.

3.3 When there are fewer than fifteen players
A Union may authorise matches to be played with fewer than fifteen players in each team. When that happens, all the Laws of the Game apply except that each team must have at least five players in the scrum at all times.
Exception: matches between teams of seven-a-side are an exception. These matches are covered by the Seven-a-side Variations to the Laws of the Game.

3.4 Players nominated as substitutes
(a) For international matches a Union may nominate up to eight replacements/substitutes.
(b) For other matches, the Union or match organiser with jurisdiction over the match decides how many replacements/substitutes may be nominated to a maximum of eight.
(c) A Union (or Unions, where a match or competition is played between teams from two or more Unions) may decide how many replacements/substitutes may be nominated to a maximum of eight.
(d) A team can substitute up to two front row players (subject to Law 3.5 (f) and (g) when it may be three) and up to five other players.
(e) Substitutions may only be made when the ball is dead and with the permission of the referee.

3.5 The front row - replacements and substitutions
(a) It is the team's responsibility to ensure that all front row players and potential front row replacements are suitably trained. It is not for the referee to determine whether any player is suitably trained to play in the front row.
(b) The table below indicates the minimum number of front row players by squad size and their minimum replacement obligations:
Squad size: 15 or less. Minimum number of front row players in the squad: 3. Must be able to replace at first time of asking: -.
Squad size: 16, 17 or 18. Minimum number of front row players in the squad: 4. Must be able to replace at first time of asking: Either prop or hooker.
Squad size: 19, 20, 21 or 22. Minimum number of front row players in the squad: 5. Must be able to replace at first time of asking: Either prop or hooker.
Squad size: 23. Minimum number of front row players in the squad: 6. Must be able to replace at first time of asking: Loose-head prop, tight-head prop and hooker.
A Union may, having taken player welfare into account, amend the minimum number of front row players in the squad and the minimum replacement obligations as defined in the Laws of the Game within its jurisdiction.
Where the Union/match organiser has determined squad sizes of 23 and a team is only able to nominate two front row replacements, then that team may nominate only 22 players in their squad.
(c) Prior to the match, each team must advise the referee of their front row players and potential front row replacements and only these players may play in the front row when a scrum is contested.
(d) A replacement front row player may start the match in another position.

3.6 Uncontested scrums
(a) Scrums will become uncontested if either team cannot field a suitably trained front row or if the referee so orders.
(b) Unions/match organisers may determine whether or not a game may start or continue with uncontested scrums.
(c) When a front row player leaves the playing area, whether through injury or temporary or permanent suspension, the referee will enquire at that time whether the team can continue with contested scrums. If the referee is informed that the team will not be able to contest the scrum then the referee will order uncontested scrums. If the player returns or another front row player comes on then contested scrums may resume.
(d) In a squad of 23 players, or at the discretion of the Union/match organiser, a player whose departure has caused the referee to order uncontested scrums cannot be replaced.
(e) If they are available, a team must have three front row players in the front row at all times. In an uncontested scrum, only when there is no available front row replacement or substitute is any other player permitted to play in the front row.
(f) If, as a result of a front row player being temporarily suspended, another player has to be nominated by the team to leave the playing area to enable an available front row player to come on, the nominated player may not return until the period of suspension ends.
(g) If, as a result of a front row player being sent off, another player has to be nominated by the team to leave the playing area to enable an available front row player to come on, the nominated player may act as a replacement/substitute.

3.7 Sent off for foul play
A player sent off for foul play must not be replaced or substituted. For an exception to this Law, refer to Law 3.5.

3.8 Permanent replacement
A player may be permanently replaced if injured. If the player is permanently replaced, that player must not return and play in that match. The replacement of the injured player must be made when the ball is dead and with the permission of the referee.

3.9 The decision for permanent replacement
(a) When a national representative team is playing in a match, a player may be replaced only when, in the opinion of a doctor, the player is so injured that it would be unwise for that player to continue playing in that match.
(b) In other matches, where a Union has given explicit permission, an injured player may be replaced on the advice of a medically trained person. If none is present, that player may be replaced if the referee agrees.

3.10 The referee’s power to stop an injured player continuing
If the referee decides - with or without the advice of a doctor or other medically qualified person - that a player is so injured that the player should stop playing, the referee may order that player to leave the playing area. The referee may also order an injured player to leave the field in order to be medically examined.

3.11 Temporary replacement - blood injury
(a) When a player has a blood injury, which has uncontrolled active bleeding (a blood injury), that player may be temporarily replaced. The injured player must return to play as soon as the bleeding has been controlled and/or covered. If the player who has been temporarily replaced is not available to return to the field of play within 15 minutes (actual time) of leaving the playing area, the replacement becomes permanent and the replaced player must not return to the field of play.
(b) In international matches, the Match Day Doctor shall decide whether an injury is a blood injury necessitating a temporary replacement.
(c) Minor cuts and abrasions not constituting a blood injury should be treated during stoppages in play for other reasons.
(d) If the temporary replacement is injured, that player may also be replaced.
(e) If the temporary replacement is sent off for foul play, the replaced player may not return to the field of play.
(f) If the temporary replacement is cautioned and temporarily suspended, the replaced player may not return to the field of play until after the period of suspension.

3.12 Temporary replacement - head injury assessment
If, at any point during a match, a player is concussed or has suspected concussion, that player must be immediately and permanently removed from the field of play. This is known as 'Recognise and Remove'.
In elite adult matches only, which have been approved in advance by World Rugby (pursuant to Regulations 10.1A and 10.15) for use of the Head Injury Assessment and this temporary replacement procedure, a player who is to have a Head Injury Assessment:
• Must leave the field of play, and
• Shall be temporarily replaced (even if all of the substitutes/replacements have been used).
This is to allow for the assessment of a player where it is not immediately apparent if the player has concussion or suspected concussion and should be permanently removed from the field of play.
Where such a player has been temporarily replaced:
(a) If that player is not presented to a match official on the touchline within ten minutes (actual time) of leaving the field of play to undergo the Head Injury Assessment, the replacement will automatically become permanent and the replaced player is not allowed to return to the field of play.
(b) If the temporary replacement takes place within the ten minutes before half-time, the replacement shall become permanent unless the replaced player returns to the field of play immediately at the start of the second-half.
(c) Unless the temporary replacement becomes permanent, the temporary replacement is prohibited from taking penalty kicks at goal or conversion kicks.
(d) The temporary replacement can be temporarily replaced if the player requires a Head Injury Assessment (even if all of the replacements have been used).
(e) If the temporary replacement is ordered off the field for foul play, the replaced player shall not be allowed to return to the field of play, except in accordance with Law 3.5 (The Front Row - Replacements and Substitutions) and Law 3.14 (Substituted Players Rejoining The Match), and only if the player has been medically cleared to do so and is presented to a match official on the touchline within ten minutes (actual time) of leaving the field of play to undergo the Head Injury Assessment.
(f) If the temporary replacement is cautioned and temporarily suspended, the replaced player is not permitted to return to the field of play until after the period of suspension, except in accordance with Law 3.5 (The Front Row - Replacements and Substitutions) and Law 3.14 (Substituted Players Rejoining The Match), and only if the player has been medically cleared to do so and is presented to a match official on the touchline within ten minutes (actual time) of leaving the field of play to undergo the Head Injury Assessment.

3.13 Player wishing to rejoin the match
(a) A player who has a blood injury which has uncontrolled active bleeding must leave the playing area. The player must not return until the bleeding is controlled and the wound has been covered.
(b) A player who leaves a match because of injury or any other reason must not rejoin the match until the referee permits the player to return. The referee must not let a player rejoin a match until the ball is dead.
(c) If a player rejoins or a replacement/substitute joins the match without the referee's permission, and the referee believes the player did so to help that player’s team or obstruct the opposing team, the referee penalises the player for misconduct.
Sanction: Penalty awarded at the place where play would restart.

3.14 Substituted players rejoining the match
If a player is substituted, that player may only return to play when replacing:
• an injured front row player in accordance with Law 3.5
• a player with a blood injury in accordance with Law 3.11
• a player undertaking a Head Injury Assessment in accordance with Law 3.12
• a player who has been injured as a result of foul play (as verified by the Match Officials).

3.15 Rolling substitutions
A Union may implement rolling substitutions at defined levels of the Game within its jurisdiction. The number of substitutions must not exceed twelve. The administration and rules relating to rolling substitutions are the responsibility of the Union having jurisdiction.

Law 4 Players’ Clothing
Definitions
Players' clothing is anything players wear.
A player wears a jersey, shorts and underwear, socks and boots. The sleeve of a jersey must extend at least half-way down the upper arm.
Detailed information relating to the permitted specifications for items of clothing and studs maybe found in World Rugby Specifications (Regulation 12).

4.1 Additional items of clothing
(a) A player may wear supports made of elasticated or compressible materials which must be washable.
(b) A player may wear shin guards which conform with World Rugby Specifications (Regulation 12).
(c) A player may wear ankle supports worn under socks, not extending higher than one third the length of the shin and, if rigid, from material other than metal.
(d) A player may wear mitts (fingerless gloves) which must conform to World Rugby Specifications (Regulation 12).
(e) A player may wear shoulder pads which must bear the World Rugby Approval Mark (Regulation 12).
(f) A player may wear a mouth guard or dental protector.
(g) A player may wear headgear which must bear the World Rugby Approval Mark (Regulation 12).
(h) A player may wear bandages and/or dressings to cover or protect any injury.
(i) A player may wear thin tape or other similar material as support and/or to prevent injury.

Law Amendment Trial
(j) A player may wear goggles which must bear the World Rugby Approval Mark (Regulation 12).
(k) Headscarves, providing they do not cause a danger to the wearer or other players and do not contravene Regulation 12.

4.2 Boots
(a) Studs of players' boots must conform with World Rugby Specifications (Regulation 12).
(b) Moulded rubber multi-studded soles are acceptable provided they have no sharp edges or ridges.

4.3 Banned items of clothing
(a) A player must not wear any item that is contaminated by blood.
(b) A player must not wear any item that is sharp or abrasive.
(c) A player must not wear any items containing buckles, clips, rings, hinges, zippers, screws, bolts or rigid material or projection not otherwise permitted under this Law.
(d) A player must not wear jewellery such as rings or earrings.
(e) A player must not wear gloves.
(f) A player must not wear shorts with padding sewn into them.
(g) A player must not wear any other item which does not conform with World Rugby Specifications for such clothing (Regulation 12).
(h) A player must not wear any item that is normally permitted by Law, but, in the referee's opinion, that is liable to cause injury to a player.
(i) A player must not wear communication devices within that player's clothing or attached to the body.
(j) A player must not wear any additional item of clothing that does not conform to World Rugby Regulation 12.

4.5 Inspection of players' clothing
(a) The referee or the touch judges appointed by or under the authority of the match organiser must inspect the players' clothing and studs for conformity to this Law.
(b) The referee has power to decide at any time, before or during the match, that part of a player's clothing is dangerous or illegal. If the referee decides that clothing is dangerous or illegal the referee must order the player to remove it. The player must not take part in the match until the items of clothing are removed.
(c) If, at an inspection before the match, the referee or a touch judge tells a player that an item banned under this Law is being worn, and the player is subsequently found to be wearing that item on the playing area, that player is sent off for misconduct.
Sanction: Penalty awarded at the place where play is restarted.

4.6 Wearing other clothing
The referee must not allow any player to leave the playing area to change items of clothing, unless these are bloodstained.
For more information on provisions relating to players’ dress, see World Rugby Regulation 12 at http://playerwelfare.worldrugby.org/reg12

Law 5 Time
5.1 Duration of a match
A match lasts no longer than 80 minutes plus time lost, extra time and any special conditions. A match is divided into two halves each of not more than forty minutes playing time.

5.2 Half-time
After half-time the teams change ends. There is an interval of not more than 15 minutes. The length of the interval is decided by the match organiser, the Union or the recognised body which has jurisdiction over the game. During the interval the teams, the referee and the touch judges may leave the playing enclosure.

5.3 Timekeeping
The referee keeps the time but may delegate the duty to either or both the touch judges and/or the official time keeper, in which case the referee signals to them any stoppage of time or time lost. In matches without an official time keeper, if the referee is in doubt as to the correct time the referee consults either or both the touch judges and may consult others but only if the touch judges cannot help.

5.4 Time lost
Time lost may be due to the following:
(a) Injury. The referee may stop play for not more than one minute so that an injured player can be treated, or for any other permitted delay.
The referee may allow play to continue while a medically trained person treats an injured player in the playing area or the player may go to the touchline for treatment.
If a player is seriously injured and needs to be removed from the field of play, the referee has the discretion to allow the necessary time to have the injured player removed from the field-of-play.
(b) Replacing players' clothing. When the ball is dead, the referee allows time for a player to replace or repair a badly torn jersey, shorts or boots. Time is allowed for a player to re-tie a boot-lace.
(c) Replacement and substitution of players. Time is allowed when a player is replaced or substituted.
(d) Referee consulting with assistant referee(s) or other officials. Time is allowed for consultations between referee and assistant referees or other officials.

5.5 Making up for time lost
Any playing time lost is made up in the same half of the match.

5.6 Extra time
A match may last more than eighty minutes if the Match Organiser has authorised the playing of extra time in a drawn match in a knock-out competition.

5.7 Other time regulations
(a) In International matches, play always lasts eighty minutes plus lost time.
(b) In non-international matches a Union may decide the length of a match.
(c) If the Union does not decide, the teams agree on the length of a match. If they cannot agree, the referee decides.
(d) The referee has the power to end the match at any time if the referee believes that play should not continue because it would be dangerous.
(e) If time expires and the ball is not dead, or an awarded scrum or lineout has not been completed, the referee allows play to continue until the next time that the ball becomes dead. The ball becomes dead when the referee would have awarded a scrum, lineout, option to the non-infringing team, drop out or after a conversion or successful penalty kick at goal. If a scrum has to be reset, the scrum has not been completed. If time expires and a mark, free kick or penalty kick is then awarded, the referee allows play to continue.
(f) If time expires after a try has been scored the referee allows time for the conversion kick to be taken.
(g) A team scoring a try near the end of the match may take the conversion kick or not. Providing they decline to take the kick or take the kick within the time remaining, a restart will occur and the match will end at the next stoppage within Law. Time is taken from the strike on the ball.
(h) If there has been a score towards the end of the match and there is time for the restart to take place, but time will expire immediately after the kick, and the kicker:
• does not kick the ball ten metres
• kicks the ball directly into touch
• kicks the ball dead on or over the opponents' touch-in-goal or dead ball line
the referee will offer the non-offending team the options provided by Law 13.7, 13.8, 13.9 respectively and the match continues until the ball next becomes dead.
(i) When weather conditions are exceptionally hot and/or humid, the referee, at his discretion, will be permitted to allow one water break in each half. This water break should be no more than one minute. Time lost should be added on at the end of each half. The water break should normally be taken after a score or when the ball is out of play near the half way line.

Law 6 Match Officials
6.A Referee
Before the match
The referee is appointed by the match organiser. If no referee has been appointed the two teams may agree upon a referee. If they cannot agree, the home team appoints a referee.

6.A.2 Replacing the referee
If the referee is unable to complete the match, the referee's replacement is appointed according to the instructions of the match organiser. If the match organiser has given no instructions, the referee appoints the replacement. If the referee cannot do so, the home team appoints a replacement.

6.A.3 Duties of the referee before the match
(a) Toss. The referee organises the toss. One of the captains tosses a coin and the other captain calls to see who wins the toss. The winner of the toss decides whether to kick off or to choose an end. If the winner of the toss decides to choose an end, the opponents must kick off and vice versa.

During the match
6.A.4 The duties of the referee in the playing area
(a) The referee is the sole judge of fact and of Law during a match. The referee must apply fairly all the laws of the Game in every match.
(b) The referee keeps the time.
(c) The referee keeps the score.

6.A.5 Entering or leaving the playing area
(a) Authorised medically trained persons may enter the playing area during the match to attend to injured players. They must only enter the playing area if it is safe to do so.
(b) Persons carrying water for the players may only enter the playing area during a stoppage in play for an injury to a player.
(c) A person carrying a kicking tee may enter the field of play after a team has indicated that they intend to kick at goal after that team has been awarded a penalty kick or scored a try.
(d) The referee gives permission to the players to leave the playing area.
(e) The referee gives permission to the replacements or substitutes to enter the playing area.
(f) The coaches may enter the playing area at half-time to attend to their teams.

6.A.6 Referee altering a decision
The referee may alter a decision when a touch judge has raised the flag to signal touch. The referee may alter a decision when an assistant referee has raised the flag to signal touch or an act of foul play.

6.A.7 Referee consulting with others
(a) The referee may consult with assistant referees about matters relating to their duties, the Law relating to foul play or timekeeping and may request assistance related to other aspects of the referee's duties including the adjudication of offside.

Law Amendment Trial
(b) A match organiser may appoint an official known as a Television Match Official (TMO) who uses technological devices to clarify situations relating to:
(i) When there is doubt as to whether a ball has been grounded in in-goal for a score or touchdown.
(ii) Where there is doubt as to whether a kick at goal has been successful.
(iii) Where there is doubt as to whether players were in touch or touch-in-goal before grounding the ball in in-goal or the ball has been made dead.
(iv) Where match officials believe an offence or infringement may have occurred in the field of play leading to a try or preventing a try.
(v) Reviewing situations where match officials believe foul play may have occurred.
(vi) Clarifying sanctions required for acts of foul play.
(c) Any of the match officials including the TMO may recommend a review by the TMO. The reviews will take place in accordance with the TMO protocol in place at the time which will be available at laws.worldrugby.org.
(d) A match organiser may appoint a timekeeper who will signify the end of each half.
(e) The referee must not consult with any other persons.

6.A.8 The referee’s whistle
(a) The referee must carry a whistle and blow the whistle to indicate the beginning and end of each half of the match.
(b) The referee has the power to blow the whistle and stop play at any time.
(c) The referee must blow the whistle to indicate a score, or a touch down.
(d) The referee must blow the whistle to stop play because of an infringement or for an offence of foul play. When the referee cautions or sends off the offender, the referee must whistle a second time when the penalty kick or penalty try is awarded.
(e) The referee must blow the whistle when the ball has gone out of play, or when it has become unplayable, or when a penalty is awarded.
(f) The referee must blow the whistle when it would be dangerous to let play continue or when it is probable that a player has been seriously injured.

6.A.9 The referee and injury
If the referee stops play because a player has been injured, and there has been no infringement and the ball has not been made dead, play restarts with a scrum. The team last in possession throws in the ball. If neither team was in possession, the attacking team throws in the ball.

6.A.10 The ball touching the referee
(a) If the ball or the ball carrier touches the referee and neither team gains an advantage, play continues. If either team gains an advantage in the field of play, the referee orders a scrum and the team that last played the ball has the throw-in.
(b) If either team gains an advantage in in-goal, if the ball is in possession of an attacking player, the referee awards a try where the contact took place.
(c) If either team gains an advantage in in-goal, if the ball is in possession of a defending player, the referee awards a touch down where the contact took place.

6.A.11 The ball in in-goal touched by non-player
The referee judges what would have happened next and awards a try or a touch down at the place where the ball was touched.

6.A.12 The match result
The referee communicates the score to the teams and to the match organiser.

6.A.13 Player sent-off
If a player is sent off the referee gives the match organiser a written report on the foul play or infringement as soon as possible.

6.B Touch judges and assistant referees
Before the match
6.B.1 Appointing touch judges and assistant referees
There are two touch judges or two assistant referees for every match. Unless they have been appointed by or under the authority of the match organiser, each team provides a touch judge.

6.B.2 Replacing a touch judge or assistant referee
The match organiser may nominate a person to act as a replacement for the referee, the touch judges or assistant referees. This person is called the reserve touch judge or reserve assistant referee and stands in the perimeter area.

6.B.3 Control of touch judges and assistant referees
The referee has control over both touch judges or assistant referees. The referee may tell them what their duties are, and may overrule their decisions. If a touch judge is unsatisfactory the referee may ask that the touch judge be replaced. If the referee believes a touch judge is guilty of misconduct, the referee has power to send the touch judge off and make a report to the match organiser.

During the match
6.B.4 Where the touch judges or assistant referees should be
(a) There is one touch judge or assistant referee on each side of the ground. The touch judge or assistant referee remains in touch except when judging a kick at goal. When judging a kick at goal the touch judges or assistant referees stand in in-goal behind the goal posts.
(b) An assistant referee may enter the playing area when reporting an offence of dangerous play or misconduct to the referee. The assistant referee may do this only at the next stoppage in play.

6.B.5 Touch judge or assistant referee signals
(a) Each touch judge or assistant referee carries a flag or something similar with which to signal decisions.
(b) Signalling result of kick at goal. When a conversion kick or a penalty kick at goal is being taken, the touch judges or assistant referees must help the referee by signalling the result of the kick. One touch judge or assistant referee stands at or behind each goal post. If the ball goes over the crossbar and between the posts, the touch judges or assistant referees raise the flags to indicate a goal.
(c) Signalling touch. When the ball or the ball carrier has gone into touch, the touch judge or assistant referee must hold up the flag. The touch judge or assistant referee must stand at the place of the throw-in and point to the team entitled to throw in. The touch judge or assistant referee must also signal when the ball or the ball carrier has gone into touch-in-goal.
(d) When to lower the flag. When the ball is thrown in, the touch judge or assistant referee must lower the flag, with the following exceptions:
Exception 1: When the player throwing in puts any part of either foot in the field of play, the touch judge or assistant referee keeps the flag up.
Exception 2: When the team not entitled to throw in has done so, the touch judge or assistant referee keeps the flag up.
Exception 3: When, at a quick throw-in, the ball that went into touch is replaced by another ball, or after it went into touch it has been touched by anyone except the player who takes the throw-in, the touch judge or assistant referee keeps the flag up.
(e) It is for the referee, and not the touch judge or assistant referee, to decide whether or not the ball was thrown in from the correct place.
(f) Signalling foul play. An assistant referee signals that foul play or misconduct has been seen by holding the flag horizontally and pointing in-field at right angles to the touchline.

6.B.6 After signalling foul play
A match organiser may give authority to the assistant referee to signal for foul play. If an assistant referee signals foul play, the assistant referee must stay in touch and continue to carry out all the other duties until the next stoppage in play. At the invitation of the referee the assistant referee may then enter the playing area to report the offence to the referee. The referee may then take whatever action is needed. Any sanction awarded will be in accordance with Law 10 - Foul Play.AFTER THE MATCH
6.B.7 PLAYER SENT-OFF
If a player has been sent off following an assistant referee’s signal and report to the referee, the assistant referee submits a written report about the incident to the referee as soon as possible after the match and provides it to the match organiser.

6.C ADDITIONAL PERSONS
6.C.1 RESERVE TOUCH JUDGE OR ASSISTANT REFEREE
When a reserve touch judge or assistant referee is appointed, the referee’s authority regarding replacements and substitutions may be delegated to the reserve touch judge or reserve assistant referee.

6.C.2 THOSE WHO MAY ENTER THE PLAYING AREA
In the case of injury, only the match doctor and/or the non-playing members of the team who are medically trained (only qualified Doctors or Physiotherapists) may enter the playing area while play continues.
The other non-playing members of the team may enter the playing area while play continues, provided they have permission from the referee. Otherwise, they enter only when the ball is dead. Such persons must not obstruct, interfere or make any comment to the match officials.

Law 7 Mode of Play
7.1 PLAYING A MATCH
A match is started by a kickoff.
After the kickoff, any player who is onside may take the ball and run with it.
Any player may throw it or kick it.
Any player may give the ball to another player.
Any player may tackle, hold or push an opponent holding the ball.
Any player may fall on the ball.
Any player may take part in a scrum, ruck, maul or lineout.
Any player may ground the ball in in-goal.
A ball carrier may hand off an opponent.
Whatever a player does must be in accordance with the Laws of the Game.

Law 8 Advantage
DEFINITIONS
The Law of advantage takes precedence over most other Laws and its purpose is to make play more continuous with fewer stoppages for infringements. Players are encouraged to play to the whistle despite infringements by their opponents. When the result of an infringement by one team is that their opposing team may gain an advantage, the referee will not whistle immediately for the infringement.

IN PRACTICE
(a) The referee is sole judge of whether or not a team has gained an advantage. The referee has wide discretion when making decisions.
(b) Advantage can be either territorial or tactical.
(c) Territorial advantage means a gain in ground.
(d) Tactical advantage means freedom for the non-offending team to play the ball as they wish.

8.2 WHEN ADVANTAGE DOES NOT ARISE
The advantage must be clear and real. A mere opportunity to gain advantage is not enough.
If the non-offending team does not gain an advantage, the referee blows the whistle and brings play back to the place of infringement.

8.3 WHEN THE ADVANTAGE LAW IS NOT APPLIED
(a) Referee contact. Advantage must not be applied when the ball, or a player carrying it, touches the referee.
(b) Ball out of tunnel. Advantage must not be applied when the ball comes out of either end of the tunnel at a scrum without having been played.
(c) Wheeled scrum. Advantage must not be applied when the scrum is wheeled through more than 90 degrees (so that the middle line has passed beyond a position parallel to the touchline).
(d) Player lifted in the air. Advantage must not be applied when a player in a scrum is lifted in the air or forced upwards and has no support on the ground. The referee must blow the whistle immediately.
(e) After the ball has been made dead. Advantage cannot be played after the ball has been made dead.

8.4 IMMEDIATE WHISTLE WHEN NO ADVANTAGE
The referee blows the whistle having determined that an advantage cannot be gained by the non-offending team.

8.5 MORE THAN ONE INFRINGEMENT
(a) When there is more than one infringement by the same team:
If advantage cannot be played or does not accrue to the second offence, the referee applies the appropriate sanction to the offence which is most advantageous to the non-offending team.
If either sanction is for foul play the referee applies the appropriate sanction to the offence which is most advantageous to the non-offending team. The referee may also temporarily suspend, or order off, the offending player.
(b) If advantage is being played following an infringement by one team and then the other team commit an infringement, the referee blows the whistle and applies the sanctions associated with the first infringement. If either infringement is for foul play, the referee applies the appropriate sanction for that offence. The referee may also temporarily suspend, or order off, the offending player.

Law 9 Method of Scoring
9.A SCORING POINTS
9.A.1 POINTS VALUES
Try. When an attacking player is first to ground the ball in the opponents’ in-goal, a try is scored.
Penalty Try. If a player would probably have scored a try but for foul play by an opponent, a penalty try is awarded between the goal posts.
Conversion Goal. When a player scores a try it gives the player’s team the right to attempt to score a goal by taking a kick at goal; this also applies to a penalty try. This kick is a conversion kick; a conversion kick can be a place kick or a drop kick.
Penalty Goal. A player scores a penalty goal by kicking a goal from a penalty kick.
Dropped Goal. A player scores a dropped goal by kicking a goal from a drop kick in general play. The team awarded a free kick cannot score a dropped goal until the ball next becomes dead, or until an opponent has played or touched it, or has tackled the ball carrier. This restriction applies also to a scrum taken instead of a free kick.

9.A.2 KICK AT GOAL - SPECIAL CIRCUMSTANCES
(a) If after the ball is kicked, it touches the ground or any team mate of the kicker, a goal cannot be scored.
(b) If the ball has crossed the crossbar a goal is scored, even if the wind blows it back into the field of play.
(c) If an opponent commits an offence as the kick at goal is being taken, but nevertheless the kick is successful, advantage is played and the score stands.
(d) Any player who touches the ball in an attempt to prevent a penalty goal being scored is illegally touching the ball.
Sanction: Penalty kick.

9.B CONVERSION KICK
(a) The kicker must use the ball that was in play unless it is defective.
(b) The kick is taken on a line through the place where the try was scored in the field of play.
(c) A team mate may hold the ball for the kicker to kick.
(d) The kicker may place the ball directly on the ground or on sand, sawdust or a kicking tee approved by the Union. No other form of assistance may be used.
(e) The kicker must take the kick within one minute and thirty seconds (ninety seconds) from the time a try has been awarded. The player must take the kick within one minute and thirty seconds even if the ball rolls over and has to be placed again.
Sanction: The kick is disallowed if the kicker does not take the kick within the time allowed.

9.B.2 DECLINING A CONVERSION KICK
(a) The decision to decline the conversion must be relayed by the try scorer to the referee, by saying "No kick" after the award of the try and before the time reaches 00.00.
(b) Once the decision is made to decline the conversion, the referee will award a restart kick. The restart kick will take place regardless of whether or not players were ready at 00.00.

9.B.3 THE KICKER’S TEAM
(a) All the kicker's team, except the placer, must be behind the ball when it is kicked.
(b) Neither the kicker nor a placer must do anything to mislead their opponents into charging too soon.
(c) If the ball falls over before the kicker begins the approach to kick, the referee permits the kicker to replace it without excessive delay. While the ball is replaced, the opponents must stay behind their goal line.
If the ball falls over after the kicker begins the approach to kick, the kicker may then kick or attempt a dropped goal.
If the ball falls over and rolls away from the line through the place where the try was scored, and the kicker then kicks the ball over the crossbar, a goal is scored.
If the ball falls over and rolls into touch after the kicker begins the approach to kick, the kick is disallowed.
Sanction: (a)-(c) If the kicker's team infringes, the kick is disallowed.

9.B.4 THE OPPOSING TEAM
(a) All players of the opposing team must retire to their goal line and must not overstep the line until the kicker begins the approach to kick or starts to kick. When the kicker does so, they may charge or jump to prevent a goal but must not be physically supported by other players in these actions.
(b) When the ball falls over after the kicker began the approach to kick, the opponents may continue to charge.
(c) A defending team must not shout during a kick at goal.
Sanction: (a)-(c) If the opposing team infringes but the kick is successful, the goal stands. If the kick is unsuccessful, the kicker may take another kick and the opposing team is not allowed to charge.
When another kick is allotted, the kicker may repeat all the preparations. The kicker may change the type of kick.

Law 10 Foul Play
DEFINITION
Foul play is anything a player does within the playing enclosure that is against the letter and spirit of the Laws of the Game. It includes obstruction, unfair play, repeated infringements, dangerous play and misconduct which is prejudicial to the game.

10.1 OBSTRUCTION
(a) Charging or pushing. When a player and an opponent are running for the ball, either player must not charge or push the other except shoulder-to-shoulder.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(b) Running in front of a ball carrier. A player must not intentionally move or stand in front of a team-mate carrying the ball thereby preventing opponents from tackling the current ball carrier or the opportunity to tackle potential ball carriers when they gain possession.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(c) Blocking the tackler. A player must not intentionally move or stand in a position that prevents an opponent from tackling a ball carrier.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(d) Blocking the ball. A player must not intentionally move or stand in a position that prevents an opponent from playing the ball.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(e) Ball carrier running into team-mate. A player carrying the ball must not intentionally run into team-mates in front of that player.
Sanction: Penalty kick

10.2 UNFAIR PLAY
(a) Intentionally Offending. A player must not intentionally infringe any Law of the Game or play unfairly. The player who intentionally offends must be either admonished, or cautioned that a send off will result if the offence or a similar offence is committed, or sent off.
Sanction: Penalty kick.
A penalty try must be awarded if the offence prevents a try that would probably otherwise have been scored. A player who prevents a try being scored through foul play must be cautioned and temporarily suspended or sent off.
(b) Time-wasting. A player must not intentionally waste time.
Sanction: Free Kick
(c) Throwing into touch. A player must not intentionally knock, place, push or throw the ball with his arm or hand into touch, touch-in-goal, or over the dead ball line.
Sanction: Penalty kick on the 15-metre line if the offence is between the 15-metre line and the touchline, or, at the place of infringement if the offence occurred elsewhere in the field of play, or, 5 metres from the goal line and at least 15 metres from the touchline if the infringement occurred in in-goal.
A penalty try must be awarded if the offence prevents a try that would probably otherwise have been scored.
(d) A player must not commit any act that may lead the match officials to consider that the player was subject to foul play or any other type of infringement committed by an opponent.
Sanction: Penalty kick

10.3 REPEATED INFRINGEMENTS
(a) Repeatedly offending. A player must not repeatedly infringe any Law. Repeated infringement is a matter of fact. The question of whether or not the player intended to infringe is irrelevant.
Sanction: Penalty kick.
A player penalised for repeated infringements must be cautioned and temporarily suspended.
(b) Repeated infringements by the team. When different players of the same team repeatedly commit the same offence, the referee must decide whether or not this amounts to repeated infringement. If it does, the referee gives a general warning to the team and if they then repeat the offence, the referee cautions and temporarily suspends the guilty player(s).
Sanction: Penalty kick.
A penalty try must be awarded if the offence prevents a try that would probably otherwise have been scored.
(c) Repeated infringements: standard applied by referee. When the referee decides how many offences constitute repeated infringement, the referee must always apply a strict standard in representative and senior matches. When a player offends three times the referee must caution that player.
The referee may relax this standard in junior or minor matches, where infringements may be the result of poor knowledge of the Laws or lack of skill.

10.4 DANGEROUS PLAY AND MISCONDUCT
(a) Punching or striking. A player must not strike an opponent with the fist or arm, including the elbow, shoulder, head or knee(s).
Sanction: Penalty kick
(b) Stamping or trampling. A player must not stamp or trample on an opponent.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(c) Kicking. A player must not kick an opponent.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(d) Tripping. A player must not trip an opponent with the leg or foot.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(e) Dangerous tackling. A player must not tackle an opponent early, late or dangerously.
Sanction: Penalty kick
A player must not tackle (or try to tackle) an opponent above the line of the shoulders even if the tackle starts below the line of the shoulders. A tackle around the opponent’s neck or head is dangerous play.
Sanction: Penalty kick
A 'stiff-arm tackle' is dangerous play. A player makes a stiff-arm tackle when using a stiff arm to strike an opponent.
Sanction: Penalty kick
Playing a player without the ball is dangerous play.
Sanction: Penalty kick
A player must not tackle an opponent whose feet are off the ground.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(f) Playing an opponent without the ball. Except in a scrum, ruck or maul, a player who is not in possession of the ball must not hold, push or obstruct an opponent not carrying the ball.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(g) Dangerous charging. A player must not charge or knock down an opponent carrying the ball without trying to grasp that player.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(h) A player must not charge into a ruck or maul. Charging includes any contact made without use of the arms, or without grasping a player.
(i) Tackling the jumper in the air. A player must not tackle nor tap, push or pull the foot or feet of an opponent jumping for the ball in a lineout or in open play.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(j) Lifting a player from the ground and dropping or driving that player into the ground while that player’s feet are still off the ground such that the player’s head and/or upper body come into contact with the ground is dangerous play.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(k) Dangerous play in a scrum, ruck or maul. The front row of a scrum must not rush against its opponents.
Sanction: Penalty kick
Front row players must not intentionally lift opponents off their feet or force them upwards out of the scrum.
Sanction: Penalty kick
Players must not charge into a ruck or maul without binding onto a player in the ruck or maul.
Sanction: Penalty kick
Players must not intentionally collapse a scrum, ruck or maul.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(l) Retaliation. A player must not retaliate. Even if an opponent is infringing the Laws, a player must not do anything that is dangerous to the opponent.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(m) Acts contrary to good sportsmanship. A player must not do anything that is against the spirit of good sportsmanship in the playing enclosure.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(n) Misconduct while the ball is out of play. A player must not, while the ball is out of play, commit any misconduct, or obstruct or in any way interfere with an opponent.
Sanction: Penalty kick.
The sanction is the same as for sections 10.4 (a)-(m) except that the penalty kick is awarded at the place where play would restart. If that place is on the touchline or within 15 metres of it, the mark for the penalty kick is on the 15-metre line, in line with that place.
If play would restart at a 5-metre scrum, the mark for the penalty kick is at that place of scrum.
If play would restart with a drop out, the non-offending team may choose to take the penalty kick anywhere on the 22-metre line.
If a penalty kick is awarded but the offending team is guilty of further misconduct before the kick is taken, the referee cautions or orders off the guilty player and advances the mark for the penalty kick 10 metres. This covers both the original offence and the misconduct.
If a penalty kick is awarded to a team but a player of that team is guilty of further misconduct before the kick is taken, the referee will caution or send-off the guilty player, declare the kick disallowed, and award a penalty kick to the opposing team.
If an offence is committed outside the playing area while the ball is still in play, and if that offence is not covered by any other part of this Law, the penalty kick is awarded on the 15-metre line, in line with where the offence happened.
(o) Late-charging the kicker. A player must not intentionally charge or obstruct an opponent who has just kicked the ball.
Sanction: The non-offending team may choose to take the penalty kick either at the place of infringement, where the ball lands or where it was next played.
Place of infringement. If the infringement takes place in the kicker's in-goal, the penalty kick is taken 5 metres from the goal line in line with the place of infringement but at least 15 metres from the touchline.
The non-offending team may also choose to take the penalty where the ball lands or is next played before landing and at least 15 metres from the touchline.
Where the ball lands. If the ball lands in touch, the mark for the optional penalty kick is the 15-metre line, in line with where it went into touch. If the ball lands, or is next played before landing, within 15 metres of the touchline, the mark is on the 15-metre line, opposite where the ball landed or was played.
If the ball lands in the in-goal, in touch-in-goal, or on or over the dead ball line, the mark for the optional penalty kick is 5 metres from the goal line, in line with the place where the ball crossed the goal line and at least 15 metres from the touchline.
If the ball hits a goal post or crossbar, the optional penalty kick is awarded where the ball lands on the ground.
(p) Flying Wedge and Cavalry Charge. A team must not use the 'Flying Wedge' or the 'Cavalry Charge'.
Sanction: Penalty kick at the place of the original infringement.
'Flying Wedge'. The type of attack known as a 'Flying Wedge' usually happens near the goal line, when the attacking team is awarded a penalty kick or free kick.
The kicker tap-kicks the ball and starts the attack, either by driving towards the goal line or by passing to a team-mate who drives forward. Immediately, team mates bind on each side of the ball carrier in a wedge formation. Often one or more of these team mates is in front of the ball carrier. A 'Flying Wedge' is illegal.
'Cavalry Charge'. The type of attack known as a 'Cavalry Charge' usually happens near the goal line, when the attacking team is awarded a penalty kick or free kick. Either a single player stands some distance behind the kicker, or attacking players form a line across the field some distance behind the kicker.
These attacking players are usually a metre or two apart. At a signal from the kicker, they charge forward. When they get near, the kicker tap-kicks the ball and passes to a player who had started some distance behind the kicker.
(q) Advantage may be played for acts of foul play, but if the offence prevents a probable try a penalty try must be awarded.
(r) For an offence reported by an assistant referee a penalty kick may be awarded where the offence occurred, or advantage may be played.
(s) All players must respect the authority of the referee. They must not dispute the referee’s decisions. They must stop playing at once when the referee blows the whistle except at a kick-off or at a penalty kick following admonishment, temporary suspension, or send-off.
Sanction: Penalty kick

10.5 SANCTIONS
(a) Any player who infringes any part of the Foul Play Law must be admonished, or cautioned and temporarily suspended for a period of ten minutes’ playing time, or sent off.
(b) A player who has been cautioned and temporarily suspended who then commits a second cautionable offence within the Foul Play Law must be sent-off.

10.6 YELLOW AND RED CARDS
(a) When a player has been cautioned and temporarily suspended in an International match the referee will show that player a yellow card.
(b) When a player has been sent off in an International match, the referee will show that player a red card.
(c) For other matches the Match Organiser or Union having jurisdiction over the match may decide upon the use of yellow and red cards.

10.7 PLAYER SENT OFF
A player who is sent-off takes no further part in the match.

Law 11 Offside and Onside in General Play
DEFINITIONS
At the start of a game all players are onside. As the match progresses players may find themselves in an offside position. Such players are liable to be penalised until they become onside again.
In general play a player is offside if the player is in front of a team-mate who is carrying the ball, or in front of a team-mate who last played the ball.
Offside means that a player is temporarily out of the game and is liable to be penalised if they take part in the game.
In general play, a player can be put onside either by an action of a team-mate or by an action of an opponent. However, the offside player is only put onside if the offside player interferes with play, or moves forward, or fails to move 10 metres away from the place where the ball lands.

11.1 OFFSIDE IN GENERAL PLAY
(a) A player who is in an offside position is liable to sanction only if the player does one of three things:
• Interferes with play, or
• Moves forward towards the ball, or
• Fails to comply with the 10-Metre Law (Law 11.4).
A player who is in an offside position is not automatically penalised.
A player who receives an unintentional throw forward is not offside.
A player can be offside in the in-goal.
(b) Offside and interfering with play. A player who is offside must not take part in the game. This means the player must not play the ball or obstruct an opponent.
(c) Offside and moving forward. When a team-mate of an offside player has kicked ahead, the offside player must not move towards opponents who are waiting to play the ball, or move towards the place where the ball lands, until the player has been put onside.
Sanction: When a player is penalised for being offside in general play, the opposing team chooses either a penalty kick at the place of infringement or a scrum at the place where the offending team last played the ball. If it was last played in that team’s in-goal, the scrum is formed 5 metres from the goal line in line with where it was played.

11.2 BEING PUT ONSIDE BY THE ACTION OF A TEAM-MATE
In general play, there are three ways by which an offside player can be put onside by actions of that player or of team-mates.
(a) Action by the player. When the offside player runs behind the team-mate who last kicked, touched or carried the ball, the player is put onside.
(b) Action by the ball carrier. When a team-mate carrying the ball runs in front of the offside player, that player is put onside.
(c) Action by the kicker or other onside player. When the kicker, or team-mate who was level with or behind the kicker when (or after) the ball was kicked, runs in front of the offside player, the player is put onside. When running forward, the team-mate may be in touch or touch-in-goal, but that team-mate must return to the playing area to put the player onside.

11.3 BEING PUT ONSIDE BY OPPONENTS
In general play, there are three ways by which an offside player can be put onside by an action of the opposing team. These three ways do not apply to a player who is offside under the 10-Metre Law.
(a) Runs 5 metres with ball. When an opponent carrying the ball runs 5 metres, the offside player is put onside.
(b) Kicks or passes. When an opponent kicks or passes the ball, the offside player is put onside.
(c) Intentionally touches ball. When an opponent intentionally touches the ball but does not catch it, the offside player is put onside.

11.4 OFFSIDE UNDER THE 10-METRE LAW
(a) When a team-mate of an offside player has kicked ahead, the offside player is considered to be taking part in the game if the player is in front of an imaginary line across the field which is 10 metres from the opponent waiting to play the ball, or from where the ball lands or may land. The offside player must immediately move behind the imaginary 10-metre line or the kicker if this is closer than 10 metres. While moving away, the player must not obstruct an opponent or interfere with play.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(b) While moving away, the offside player cannot be put onside by any action of the opposing team. However, before the player has moved the full 10 metres, the player can be put onside by any onside team-mate who runs in front of the player.
(c) When a player who is offside under the 10-Metre Law charges an opponent waiting to catch the ball, the referee blows the whistle at once and the offside player is penalised. Delay may prove dangerous to the opponent.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(d) When a player who is offside under the 10-metre Law plays the ball which has been misfielded by an opponent, the offside player is penalised.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(e) The 10-metre Law is not altered by the fact that the ball has hit a goal post or a crossbar. What matters is where the ball lands. An offside player must not be in front of the imaginary 10-metre line across the field.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(f) The 10-metre Law does not apply when a player kicks the ball, and an opponent charges down the kick, and a team-mate of the kicker who was in front of the imaginary 10-metre line across the field then plays the ball. The opponent was not "waiting to play the ball" and the team-mate is onside. The 10-metre Law applies if the ball touches or is played by an opponent but is not charged down.
(g) If more than one player is offside and moving forward after a team-mate has kicked, the place of infringement is the position of the offside player closest to an opponent waiting for the ball, or closest to where the ball lands.

11.5 BEING PUT ONSIDE UNDER THE 10-METRE LAW
(a) The offside player must retire behind the imaginary 10-metre line across the field, otherwise the player is liable to be penalised.
(b) While retiring, the player can be put onside before moving behind the imaginary 10-metre line by any of the three actions of the player's team listed above in 11.2. However, the player cannot be put onside by any action of the opposing team.

11.6 ACCIDENTAL OFFSIDE
(a) When an offside player cannot avoid being touched by the ball or by a team-mate carrying it, the player is accidentally offside. If the player's team gains no advantage from this, play continues. If the player's team gains an advantage, a scrum is formed with the opposing team throwing in the ball.
(b) When a player hands the ball to a team-mate in front of the first player, the receiver is offside. Unless the receiver is considered to be intentionally offside (in which case a penalty kick is awarded), the receiver is accidentally offside and a scrum is formed with the opposing team throwing in the ball.

11.7 OFFSIDE AFTER A KNOCK-ON
When a player knocks-on and an offside team-mate next plays the ball, the offside player is liable to sanction if playing the ball prevented an opponent from gaining an advantage.
Sanction: Penalty kick

11.8 SCRUM OR LINEOUT PLAYER RETIRING DURING A RUCK/MAUL
When a ruck, maul, scrum or lineout forms, a player who is offside and is retiring as required by Law remains offside even when the opposing team wins possession and the ruck, maul, scrum or lineout has ended. The player is put onside by retiring behind the applicable offside line. No other action of the offside player and no action of that player’s team-mates can put the offside player onside.
If the player remains offside the player can be put onside only by the action of the opposing team. There are two such actions:
Opponent runs 5 metres with ball. When an opponent carrying the ball has run 5 metres, the offside player is put onside. An offside player is not put onside when an opponent passes the ball. Even if the opponents pass the ball several times, their action does not put the offside player onside.
Opponent kicks. When an opponent kicks the ball, the offside player is put onside.
A player who remains in an offside position is loitering. A loiterer who prevents the opposing team from playing the ball as they wish is taking part in the game, and is penalised. The referee makes sure that the loiterer does not benefit from being put onside by the opposing team’s action.
Sanction: Penalty kick at the offending player’s offside line.

Law 12 Knock-on or Throw Forward
DEFINITION: KNOCK-ON
A knock-on occurs when a player loses possession of the ball and it goes forward, or when a player hits the ball forward with the hand or arm, or when the ball hits the hand or arm and goes forward, and the ball touches the ground or another player before the original player can catch it.
'Forward' means towards the opposing team’s dead ball line.
EXCEPTION
Charge down. If a player charges down the ball as an opponent kicks it, or immediately after the kick, it is not a knock-on even if the ball travels forward.

DEFINITION: THROW FORWARD
A throw forward occurs when a player throws or passes the ball forward, i.e. if the arms of the player move towards the opposing team’s dead ball line.
EXCEPTION
Bounce forward. If the ball is thrown forward but it hits a player or the ground and bounces forward, it is not a throw forward.

12.1 THE OUTCOME OF A KNOCK-ON OR THROW FORWARD
(a) Unintentional knock-on or throw forward. A scrum is awarded at the place of infringement.
(b) Unintentional knock-on or throw forward at a lineout. A scrum is awarded 15 metres from the touchline.
(c) Knock-on or throw forward into the in-goal. If an attacking player knocks-on or throws forward in the field of play and the ball goes into the opponents' in-goal and it is made dead there, a scrum is awarded where the knock-on or throw forward happened.
(d) Knock-on or throw forward inside the in-goal. If a player of either team knocks-on or throws forward inside the in-goal, a 5-metre scrum is awarded in line with the place of infringement not closer than 5 metres from the touchline.
(e) Knock-on or throw forward into touch. When the ball goes into touch from a knock-on or throw forward, the non-offending team will have the option of a lineout at the point the ball crossed the touch line or a scrum at the place of the knock-on or throw forward, or a quick throw-in.

12.2 INTENTIONAL KNOCK OR THROW FORWARD
A player must not intentionally knock the ball forward with hand or arm, nor throw forward.
Sanction: Penalty kick. A penalty try must be awarded if the offence prevents a try that would probably otherwise have been scored.

Law 13 Kick-off and Restart Kicks
DEFINITIONS
The kick-off occurs at the start of each half of the match and at the beginning of each period of extra time. Restart kicks occur after a score or a touch down.

13.1 WHERE AND HOW THE KICK-OFF IS TAKEN
(a) A team kicks off with a drop kick which must be taken at or behind the centre of the half-way line.
(b) If the ball is kicked off by the wrong type of kick, or from the incorrect place, the opposing team has two choices:
• To have the ball kicked off again, or
• To have a scrum at the centre of the half-way line and they throw in the ball.

13.2 WHO TAKES THE KICK-OFF
At the start of the game, the team whose captain elected to take the kick after winning the toss will kick off, or the opposing team if the winning captain elected to choose an end.
After the half-time interval, the opponents of the team who kicked off at the start of the game kick off.
After a score the opponents of the team who scored restart play.

13.3 POSITION OF THE KICKER’S TEAM AT A KICK-OFF
All the kicker’s team must be behind the ball when it is kicked. If they are not, a scrum is formed at the centre. Their opponents throw in the ball.

13.4 POSITION OF THE OPPOSING TEAM AT A KICK-OFF
All the opposing team must stand on or behind the 10-metre line. If they are in front of that line or if they charge before the ball is kicked, it is kicked off again.

13.5 KICK-OFF AT 10 METRES
If the ball reaches the opponents' 10-metre line or reaches the 10-metre line and is blown back, play continues.

13.6 BALL NOT 10 METRES BUT PLAYED BY AN OPPONENT
If the ball does not reach the opponent’s 10-metre line but is first played by an opponent, play continues.

13.7 BALL UNDER 10 METRES AND NOT PLAYED
If the ball does not reach the opponent’s 10-metre line the opposing team has two choices:
• To have the ball kicked off again, or
• To have a scrum at the centre of the half-way line and they throw in the ball.

13.8 BALL GOES DIRECTLY INTO TOUCH
The ball must land in the field of play. If it is kicked directly into touch the opposing team has three choices:
• To have the ball kicked off again, or
• To have a scrum at the centre and they have the throw-in, or
• To accept the kick.
If they accept the kick, the lineout is on the half-way line. If the ball is blown behind the half-way line and goes directly into touch, the lineout is at the place where it went into touch.

13.9 BALL GOES INTO THE OPPONENTS’ IN-GOAL
(a) If the ball is kicked into the opponents’ in-goal without having touched or been touched by a player, the opposing team has three choices:
• To ground the ball, or
• To make it dead, or
• To play on.
(b) If the opposing team grounds the ball, or if they make it dead, or if the ball becomes dead by going into touch-in-goal, or on or over the dead ball line, they have two choices:
• To have a scrum formed at the centre, and they throw in the ball, or
• To have the other team kick off again.
(c) If they opt to ground the ball or make it dead, they must do so without delay. Any other action with the ball by a defending player means the player has elected to play on.
(d) If the ball does not travel ten metres and ends up in the kicking team's in-goal and:
• it is made dead by a defending player, or
• the ball goes into touch in goal, or
• lands on or over the dead ball line;
a 5-metre scrum is awarded and the attacking team throw in.

13.10 DROP-OUT
DEFINITIONS
A drop-out is a drop kick taken by the defending team. The drop-out may be taken anywhere on or behind the 22-metre line.
A drop-out is used to restart play after an attacking player has put or taken the ball into the in-goal, without infringement, and a defending player has made the ball dead there or it has gone into touch-in-goal or on or over the dead ball line.

13.11 DELAY IN DROP-OUT
The drop-out must be taken without delay.
Sanction: Free kick on the 22-metre line.

13.12 DROP-OUT INCORRECTLY TAKEN
If the ball is kicked with the wrong type of kick, or from the wrong place, the opposing team has two choices:
• To have another drop-out, or
• To have a scrum at the centre of the 22-metre line and they throw in the ball.

13.13 DROP-OUT MUST CROSS THE LINE
(a) If the ball does not cross the 22-metre line, the opposing team has two choices:
• To have another drop-out, or
• To have a scrum at the centre of the 22-metre line. They throw in the ball.
(b) If the ball crosses the 22-metre line but is blown back, play continues.
(c) If the ball does not cross the 22-metre line, advantage may apply. An opponent who catches the ball can score a try.

13.14 DROP-OUT GOES DIRECTLY INTO TOUCH
The ball must land in the field of play. If it is kicked directly into touch, the opposing team has three choices:
• To have another drop-out, or
• To have a scrum at the centre of the 22-metre line, and they throw in the ball, or
• To accept the kick. If they accept the kick, the throw-in is on the 22-metre line.

13.15 DROP-OUT GOES INTO THE OPPONENTS’ IN-GOAL
(a) If the ball is kicked into the opponents' in-goal without having touched or been touched by a player, the opposing team has three choices:
• To ground the ball, or
• To make it dead, or
• To play on.
(b) If the opposing team grounds the ball, or makes it dead, or if the ball becomes dead by going into touch-in-goal or on or over the dead ball line, they have two choices:
• To have a scrum formed at the centre of the 22-metre line from where the kick was taken and they throw in the ball, or
• To have the other team drop out again.
(c) If they opt to ground the ball or make it dead, they must do so without delay. Any other action with the ball by a defending player means the player has elected to play on.

13.16 THE KICKER’S TEAM
(a) All the kicker's team must be behind the ball when it is kicked. If not, a scrum is formed at the centre of the 22-metre line. The opposing team throws in the ball.
(b) However, if the kick is taken so quickly that players of the kicker's team who are retiring are still in front of the ball, they will not be penalised. They must not stop retiring until they have been made onside by an action of a team mate. They must not take part in the game until they have been made onside in this way.
Sanction: Scrum at the centre of the 22-metre line. The opposing team throws in the ball.

13.17 THE OPPOSING TEAM
(a) The opposing team must not charge over the 22-metre line before the ball is kicked.
Sanction: Free kick, at the place of infringement.
(b) If an opponent is on the wrong side of the 22-metre line and delays or obstructs the drop-out, the player is guilty of misconduct.
Sanction: Penalty kick on the 22-metre line.

Law 14 Ball on the Ground - No Tackle
DEFINITIONS
This situation occurs when the ball is available on the ground and a player goes to ground to gather the ball.
It also occurs when a player goes to ground in possession of the ball and has not been tackled.
Immediately after a scrum or a ruck.
The Game is to be played by players who are on their feet. A player who makes the ball unplayable, or who obstructs the opposing team by falling down, is negative and must be penalised.
Unplayable means that the ball is not immediately available to either team so that play may continue.
A player who goes to ground while holding the ball, or a player who gathers the ball, must act immediately.

14.1 PLAYERS ON THE GROUND
(a) A player with the ball must immediately do one of three things:
• Get up with the ball
• Pass the ball
• Release the ball
Sanction: Penalty kick
(b) A player who passes or releases the ball must also get up or move away from it at once.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(c) A player without the ball must not lie on, over, or near the ball to prevent opponents getting possession of it.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(d) A player on the ground must not tackle or attempt to tackle an opponent.
Sanction: Penalty kick

14.2 PLAYERS ON THEIR FEET
(a) Falling over the player on the ground with the ball. A player must not intentionally fall on or over a player with the ball who is lying on the ground.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(b) Falling over players lying on the ground near the ball. A player must not intentionally fall on or over players lying on the ground with the ball between them or near them.
Sanction: Penalty kick

Law 15 Tackle: Ball Carrier Brought to GroundDEFINITIONS
A tackle occurs when the ball carrier is held by one or more opponents and is brought to ground.
A ball carrier who is not held is not a tackled player and a tackle has not taken place.
Opposition players who hold the ball carrier and bring that player to ground, and who also go to ground, are known as tacklers.
Opposition players who hold the ball carrier and do not go to ground are not tacklers.

15.1 WHERE CAN A TACKLE TAKE PLACE
A tackle can only take place in the field of play.

15.2 WHEN A TACKLE CANNOT TAKE PLACE
When the ball carrier is held by one opponent and a team-mate of the ball carrier binds to that ball carrier, a maul has been formed and a tackle cannot take place.

15.3 BROUGHT TO THE GROUND DEFINITIONS
(a) If the ball carrier has one knee or both knees on the ground, that player has been ‘brought to ground’.
(b) If the ball carrier is sitting on the ground, or on top of another player on the ground, the ball carrier has been ‘brought to ground’.

15.4 THE TACKLER
(a) When a player tackles an opponent and they both go to ground, the tackler must immediately release the tackled player.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(b) The tackler must immediately get up or move away from the tackled player and remain on their feet at once.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(c) The tackler must get up before playing the ball and then may play the ball from any direction.
Sanction: Penalty kick

15.5 THE TACKLED PLAYER
(a) A tackled player must not lie on, over, or near the ball to prevent opponents from gaining possession of it, and must try to make the ball available immediately so that play can continue.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(b) A tackled player must immediately pass the ball or release it. That player must also get up or move away from it at once.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(c) A tackled player may release the ball by putting it on the ground in any direction, provided this is done immediately.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(d) A tackled player may release the ball by pushing it along the ground in any direction except forward, provided this is done immediately.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(e) If opposition players who are on their feet attempt to play the ball, the tackled player must release the ball.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(f) If a tackled player’s momentum carries the player into the in-goal, the player can score a try or make a touch down.
(g) If a player is tackled near the goal line, that player may immediately reach out and ground the ball on or over the goal line to score a try or make a touch down.

15.6 OTHER PLAYERS
(a) After a tackle, all other players must be on their feet when they play the ball. Players are on their feet if no other part of their body is supported by the ground or players on the ground.
Sanction: Penalty kick
Exception: Ball goes into the in-goal. After a tackle near the goal line, if the ball has been released and has gone into the in-goal, any player, including a player on the ground, may ground the ball.
(b) After a tackle, any players on their feet may attempt to gain possession by taking the ball from the ball carrier's possession.
(c) Players in opposition to the ball carrier who remain on their feet who bring the ball carrier to ground so that the player is tackled must release the ball and the ball carrier. Those players may then play the ball providing they are on their feet and do so from behind the ball and from directly behind the tackled player or a tackler closest to those players' goal line.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(d) At a tackle or near to a tackle, other players who play the ball must do so from behind the ball and from directly behind the tackled player or the tackler closest to those players' goal line.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(e) Any player who gains possession of the ball at the tackle must play the ball immediately by moving away or passing or kicking the ball.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(f) Any player who first gains possession of the ball must not go to the ground at the tackle or near to it unless tackled by an opposition player.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(g) Any player who first gains possession of the ball at the tackle or near to it may be tackled by an opposition player providing that player does so from behind the ball and from directly behind the tackled player or the tackler closest to that player's goal line.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(h) After a tackle, any player lying on the ground must not prevent an opponent from getting possession of the ball.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(i) After a tackle, any player on the ground must not tackle an opponent or try to tackle an opponent.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(j) When a tackled player reaches out to ground the ball on or over the goal line to score a try, an opponent may pull the ball from the player's possession, but must not kick or attempt to kick the ball.
Sanction: Penalty kick

15.7 FORBIDDEN PRACTICES
(a) No player may prevent the tackled player from passing the ball.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(b) No player may prevent the tackled player from releasing the ball and getting up or moving away from it.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(c) No player may fall on or over the players lying on the ground after a tackle with the ball between or near to them.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(d) Players on their feet must not charge or obstruct an opponent who is not near the ball.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(e) Danger may arise if a tackled player fails to release the ball or move away from it immediately, or if that player is prevented from so doing. If either of these happens the referee awards a penalty kick immediately.
Sanction: Penalty kick

15.8 DOUBT ABOUT FAILURE TO COMPLY
If the ball becomes unplayable at a tackle and there is doubt about which player did not conform to Law, the referee orders a scrum immediately with the throw-in by the team that was moving forward prior to the stoppage or, if no team was moving forward, by the attacking team.

16.1 FORMING A RUCK
(a) Where can a ruck take place. A ruck can take place only in the field of play.
(b) How can a ruck form. Players are on their feet. At least one player must be in physical contact with an opponent. The ball must be on the ground. If the ball is off the ground for any reason, the ruck is not formed.

16.2 JOINING A RUCK
(a) All players forming, joining or taking part in a ruck must have their heads and shoulders no lower than their hips.
Sanction: Free Kick
(b) A player joining a ruck must bind on a team mate or an opponent, using the whole arm. The bind must either precede, or be simultaneous with, contact with any other part of the body of the player joining the ruck.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(c) Placing a hand on another player in the ruck does not constitute binding.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(d) All players forming, joining or taking part in a ruck must be on their feet.
Sanction: Penalty kick

16.3 RUCKING
(a) Players in a ruck must endeavour to stay on their feet.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(b) A player must not intentionally fall or kneel in a ruck. This is dangerous play.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(c) A player must not intentionally collapse a ruck. This is dangerous play.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(d) A player must not jump on top of a ruck.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(e) Players must have their heads and shoulders no lower than their hips.
Sanction: Free Kick
(f) A player rucking for the ball must not intentionally ruck players on the ground. A player rucking for the ball must try to step over players on the ground and must not intentionally step on them. A player rucking must do so near the ball.
Sanction: Penalty kick

16.4 RUCK INFRINGEMENT
(a) Players must not return the ball into a ruck.
Sanction: Free Kick
(b) Players must not handle the ball in a ruck except after a tackle if they are on their feet and have their hands on the ball before the ruck is formed.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(c) Players must not pick up the ball in a ruck with their legs.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(d) Players on the ground in or near the ruck must try to move away from the ball. These players must not interfere with the ball in the ruck or as it comes out of the ruck.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(e) A player must not fall on or over the ball as it is coming out of a ruck.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(f) A player must not take any action to make the opposing team think that the ball is out of the ruck while it is still in the ruck.
Sanction: Free Kick

16.5 OFFSIDE AT THE RUCK
(a) The offside line. There are two offside lines parallel to the goal lines, one for each team. Each offside line runs through the hindmost foot of the hindmost player in the ruck. If the hindmost foot of the hindmost player is on or behind the goal line, the offside line for the defending team is the goal line.
(b) Players must either join a ruck, or retire behind the offside line immediately. If a player loiters at the side of a ruck, the player is offside.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(c) Players joining or rejoining the ruck. A player joining a ruck must do so from behind the foot of the hindmost team-mate in the ruck. A player may join alongside this hindmost player. If a player joins the ruck from the opponents' side, or in front of the hindmost team-mate, the player is offside. A player may bind onto an opposition player providing the player is not otherwise offside.
Sanction: Penalty kick on the offending team's offside line
(d) Players not joining the ruck. If a player is in front of the offside line and does not join the ruck, the player must retire behind the offside line at once. If a player who is behind the offside line oversteps it and does not join the ruck, the player is offside.
Sanction: Penalty kick on the offending team’s offside line

16.6 SUCCESSFUL END TO A RUCK
A ruck ends successfully when the ball leaves the ruck, or when the ball is on or over the goal line.

16.7 UNSUCCESSFUL END TO A RUCK
(a) A ruck ends unsuccessfully when the ball becomes unplayable and a scrum is ordered. The team that was moving forward immediately before the ball became unplayable in the ruck throws in the ball. If neither team was moving forward, or if the referee cannot decide which team was moving forward before the ball became unplayable in the ruck, the team that was moving forward before the ruck began throws in the ball. If neither team was moving forward, then the attacking team throws in the ball.
(b) Before the referee blows the whistle for a scrum, the referee allows a reasonable amount of time for the ball to emerge, especially if either team is moving forward. If the ruck stops moving, or if the referee decides that the ball will probably not emerge within a reasonable time, the referee must order a scrum.
(c) When the ball has been clearly won by a team at a ruck and the ball is available to be played, the referee will call ‘Use it’ after which the ball must be played within five seconds. If the ball is not played within five seconds the referee will award a scrum and the team not in possession of the ball at the ruck is awarded the throw-in.

17.1 FORMING A MAUL
(a) Where can a maul take place. A maul can only take place in the field of play.

17.2 JOINING A MAUL
(a) Players joining a maul must have their heads and shoulders no lower than their hips.
Sanction: Free Kick
(b) A player must be caught in or bound to the maul and not just alongside it.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(c) Placing a hand on another player in the maul does not constitute binding.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(d) Keeping players on their feet. Players in a maul must endeavour to stay on their feet. The ball carrier in a maul may go to ground providing the ball is available immediately and play continues.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(e) A player must not intentionally collapse a maul. This is dangerous play.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(f) A player must not jump on top of a maul.
Sanction: Penalty kick

17.3 OTHER
(a) A player must not try to drag an opponent out of a maul.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(b) A player must not take any action to make the opposing team think that the ball is out of the maul while it is still in the maul.
Sanction: Free Kick

17.4 OFFSIDE AT THE MAUL
(a) The offside line. There are two offside lines parallel to the goal lines, one for each team. Each offside line runs through the hindmost foot of the hindmost player in the maul. If the hindmost foot of the hindmost player is on or behind the goal line, the offside line for the defending team is the goal line.
(b) A player must either join a maul, or retire behind the offside line immediately. If a player loiters at the side of a maul, the player is offside.
Sanction: Penalty kick on the offending team’s offside line
(c) Players joining the maul. Players joining a maul must do so from behind the foot of the hindmost team-mate in the maul. The player may join alongside this player. If the player joins the maul from the opponents’ side, or in front of the hindmost team-mate, the player is offside.
Sanction: Penalty kick on the offending team’s offside line
(d) Players not joining the maul. All players in front of the offside line and who do not join the maul, must retire behind the offside line at once. A player who does not do so, is offside. If any player who is behind the offside line oversteps it and does not join the maul, the player is offside.
Sanction: Penalty kick on the offending team’s offside line
(e) Players leaving or rejoining the maul. Players who leave a maul must immediately retire behind the offside line, otherwise, they are offside. If the player rejoins the maul in front of the hindmost team-mate in the maul, they are offside. The player may rejoin the maul alongside the hindmost team-mate.
Sanction: Penalty kick on the offending team’s offside line
(f) When players of the team who are not in possession of the ball in the maul voluntarily leave the maul such that there are no players of that team left in the maul, the maul may continue and there are two offside lines. The offside line for the team in possession runs through the hindmost foot of the hindmost player in the maul and for the team not in possession it is a line that runs through the foremost foot of the foremost player of the team in possession at the maul.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(g) When players of the team who are not in possession of the ball in the maul voluntarily leave the maul such that there are no players of that team left in the maul, players of that team may rejoin the maul providing that the first player binds on the foremost player of the team in possession of the ball.
Sanction: Penalty kick

17.5 SUCCESSFUL END TO A MAUL
A maul ends successfully when:
• the ball or a player with the ball leaves the maul
• the ball is on the ground
• the ball is on or over the goal line.

17.6 UNSUCCESSFUL END TO A MAUL
(a) A maul ends unsuccessfully if it remains stationary or has stopped moving forward for longer than 5 seconds and a scrum is ordered.
(b) A maul ends unsuccessfully if the ball becomes unplayable or collapses (not as a result of foul play) and a scrum is ordered.
(c) Scrum following maul. The ball is thrown in by the team not in possession when the maul began. If the referee cannot decide which team had possession, the team moving forward before the maul stopped throws in the ball. If neither team was moving forward, the attacking team throws in the ball.
(d) When a maul remains stationary or has stopped moving forward for more than 5 seconds, but the ball is being moved and the referee can see it, a reasonable time is allowed for the ball to emerge. If it does not emerge within a reasonable time, a scrum is ordered.
(e) When a maul has stopped moving forward it may start moving forward again providing it does so within 5 seconds. If the maul stops moving forward a second time and if the ball is being moved and the referee can see it, a reasonable time is allowed for the ball to emerge. If it does not emerge within a reasonable time, a scrum is ordered.
(f) When the ball in a maul becomes unplayable, the referee does not allow prolonged wrestling for it. A scrum is ordered.
(g) If the ball carrier in a maul goes to ground, including being on one or both knees or sitting, the referee orders a scrum unless the ball is immediately available. When the ball is available to be played the referee will call ‘Use it’ after which the ball must be played within five seconds. If the ball is not played within five seconds the referee will award a scrum and the team not in possession of the ball is awarded the throw-in.
(h) Scrum after a maul when catcher is held. If a player catches the ball direct from an opponent's kick, except from a kick off or a drop-out, and the player is immediately held by an opponent, a maul may form. Then if the maul remains stationary, stops moving forward for longer than 5 seconds, or if the ball becomes unplayable, and a scrum is ordered, the team of the ball catcher throws in the ball.
'Direct from an opponent's kick' means the ball did not touch another player or the ground before the player caught it.

DEFINITIONS
To make a mark, a player must be on or behind the 22-metre line. When a player with one foot on the 22-metre line or behind it catches the ball from an opponent's kick and at the same time shouts "Mark", a mark is made. A mark cannot be made from a kick-off, or a restart kick except for a drop-out.
A kick is awarded for a mark. The place for the kick is the place of the mark.
A player may make a mark even though the ball hits a goal post or crossbar before being caught.
A player from the defending team may make a mark in their in-goal.

18.1 AFTER A MARK
The referee immediately blows the whistle and awards a kick to the player who made the mark.
The kick is awarded at the place of the mark. If the mark is made in the in-goal, the kick is awarded 5 metres from the goal line in line with where the mark was made.
The kick is taken by the player who made the mark. If that player cannot take the kick within one minute, a scrum is formed at the place of the mark with the ball thrown in by the player's team. If the mark is in-goal, the scrum is 5 metres from the goal line, on a line through the mark.

18.5 HOW THE KICK IS TAKEN
The provisions of Law 21 - Free Kicks apply to a kick awarded after a mark.

18.6 SCRAM AFTER A MARK
(b) Where the scrum is. If the mark is in the field of play, the scrum is at the place of the mark, but at least 5 metres from the touchline. If the mark is in-goal, the scrum is 5 metres from the goal line on a line through the mark, and at least 5 metres from the touchline.
(c) Who throws in. The team of the player who made the mark throws in the ball.

18.7 PENALTY KICK AWARDED
(a) An opponent, whether onside or offside, must not charge a player who has made a mark after the referee has blown the whistle.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(b) Where the penalty kick is taken. If the infringing player is onside, the penalty kick is taken at the place of the infringement. If the infringing player is offside, the penalty kick is taken at the place of the offside line (Law 11 offside and onside in General Play).
(c) The penalty kick. Any player from the non-offending team may take the penalty kick.

DEFINITIONS
'Kicked directly into touch' means that the ball was kicked into touch without landing on the playing area, and without touching or being touched by a player.
'The 22' is the area between the goal line and the 22-metre line, but excluding the goal line.
The line of touch is an imaginary line in the field of play at right angles to the touchline through the place where the ball is thrown in.
The ball is in touch when it is not being carried by a player and it touches the touchline or anything or anyone on or beyond the touchline.
The ball is in touch when a player is carrying it and the ball carrier (or the ball) touches the touchline or the ground beyond the touchline. The place where the ball carrier (or the ball) touched or crossed the touchline is where it went into touch.
The ball is in touch if a player catches the ball and that player has a foot on the touchline or the ground beyond the touchline. If a player has one foot in the field of play and one foot in touch and holds the ball, the ball is in touch.
If the ball crosses the touchline or touch-in-goal line, and is caught by a player who has both feet in the playing area, the ball is not in touch or touch-in-goal. Such a player may knock the ball into the playing area.
If a player jumps and catches the ball, both feet must land in the playing area, otherwise the ball is in touch or touch-in-goal.
A player in touch may kick or knock the ball, but not hold it, provided it has not crossed the plane of the touchline. The plane of the touchline is the vertical space rising immediately above the touchline.

19.1 THROW IN AND NO GAIN IN GROUND
(a) Outside a team’s 22, a team member kicks directly into touch. Except for a penalty kick, when a player anywhere in the field of play who is outside the 22 kicks directly into touch, there is no gain in ground. The throw-in is taken either at the place opposite where the player kicked the ball, or at the place where it went into touch, whichever is nearer that player's goal line.
(b) When a team causes the ball to be put into their own 22. When a defending player plays the ball from outside the 22 and it goes into that player's 22 or in-goal area without touching an opposition player and then that player or another player from that team kicks the ball directly into touch before it touches an opposition player, or a tackle takes place or a ruck or maul is formed, there is no gain in ground. This applies when a defending player moves back behind the 22-metre line to take a quick throw-in and then the ball is kicked directly into touch.
(c) If a player with one or both feet inside the 22-metre line, picks up the ball which was stationary outside the 22-metre line and kicks it directly into touch, then the player has taken the ball back inside the 22-metre line, so there is no gain in ground.
(d) Defending team takes ball into their own 22 at a scrum or lineout. When a defending team throws the ball into a scrum or lineout outside that team's 22 and the ball then crosses into the team's 22 without touching an opposition player and then a player from the defending team kicks the ball directly into touch before it touches an opposition player, or a tackle takes place or a ruck or maul is formed, there is no gain in ground.

GAIN IN GROUND
(e) If a player with one or both feet inside the 22-metre line, picks up the ball which was in motion outside the 22-metre line, and kicks it directly into touch from within the 22-metre area, the throw-in is where the ball went into touch.
(f) Player takes ball into their own 22. When a defending player plays the ball from outside the 22 and it goes into that player's 22 or in-goal area and it touches an opposition player or a tackle takes place or a ruck or maul is formed and then the ball is kicked by a player of that team directly into touch, the throw-in is where the ball went into touch.
(g) Ball put into a player’s 22 by the opposition. When the ball is put into a team’s 22 by the opposition, without having touched (or been touched by) a player of the defending team before crossing the 22 and the ball is then kicked into touch by the defending team, the throw-in is where the ball went into touch.
(h) Kicks indirectly into touch. When a player anywhere in the playing area kicks indirectly into touch so that the ball bounces in the field of play the throw-in is taken where the ball went into touch.
When a player anywhere in the playing area kicks the ball so that it touches or is touched by an opposition player and then goes indirectly into touch so that the ball bounces in the field of play the throw-in is taken where the ball went into touch.
When a player anywhere in the playing area kicks the ball so that it touches or is touched by an opposition player and then goes directly into touch the throw-in is taken in line with where the opposition player touched the ball or where the ball crossed the touchline if that is nearer the opposition player's goal line.
(i) Penalty kick. When a player kicks to touch from a penalty kick anywhere in the playing area, the throw-in is taken where the ball went into touch.
(j) Outside the kicker’s 22, no gain in ground. When a free kick awarded outside the 22 goes directly into touch, the throw-in is in line with where the ball was kicked, or where it went into touch, whichever is nearer the kicker's goal line.
(k) Inside the kicker's 22 or in-goal, gain in ground. When a free kick is awarded in the 22 or in-goal and the kick goes directly into touch, the throw-in is where the ball went into touch.

19.2 QUICK THROW-IN
(a) A player may take a quick throw-in without waiting for a lineout to form.
(b) For a quick throw-in, the player may be anywhere outside the field of play between the place where the ball would be thrown in from a formed lineout and the player's goal line.
(c) A player must not take a quick throw-in after the lineout has formed. If the player does, the quick throw-in is disallowed. The same team throws in at the lineout.
(d) For a quick throw-in, the player must use the ball that went into touch. A quick throw-in is not permitted if another person has touched the ball apart from the player throwing it in and an opponent who carried it into touch. The same team throws into the lineout.
(e) An incorrect quick throw-in occurs when:
• The ball is thrown towards the opponents' goal line, or
• The ball is thrown in ahead of the line of touch, or
• The ball is thrown in on or behind the goal line, or
• The ball touches the ground or a player before reaching the 5-metre line, or
• The thrower steps into the field-of-play when throwing the ball.
The opposing team's choices are to elect to throw in at either:
• a lineout where the quick throw was attempted, or
• a scrum on the 15-metre line at that place.
If they, too, throw in the ball incorrectly at the lineout, a scrum is formed on the 15-metre line. The team that first threw in the ball throws in the ball at the scrum.
(f) At a quick throw-in, a player may throw the ball in straight along the line of touch or towards that player's goal line.
(g) At a quick throw-in, a player may come to the line of touch and leave without being penalised.
(h) At a quick throw-in, a player must not prevent the ball being thrown in 5 metres.
Sanction: Free Kick on 15-metre line
(i) If a player carrying the ball is forced into touch, that player must release the ball to an opposition player so that there can be a quick throw-in.
Sanction: Penalty kick on 15-metre line

19.3 OTHER THROW-INS
On all other occasions, the throw-in is taken where the ball went into touch.

19.4 WHO THROWS IN
(a) The throw-in is taken by an opponent of the player who last held or touched the ball before it went into touch. When there is doubt, the attacking team takes the throw-in.
Exception: When a team takes a penalty kick, and the ball is kicked into touch, the throw-in is taken by a player of the team that took the penalty kick. This applies whether the ball was kicked directly or indirectly into touch.
(b) When the ball goes into touch from a knock-on or throw forward, the non-offending team will have the option of a lineout at the point the ball crossed the touchline, or a scrum at the place of the knock-on or throw forward, or a quick throw-in.

19.5 PLAYER WITH FOOT IN TOUCH
(a) If a player with one or both feet on or beyond the touchline (or touch-in-goal line), picks up the ball which was stationary within the playing area, that player has picked up the ball in the playing area and thereby that player has taken the ball into touch (or touch-in-goal).
(b) If a player with one or both feet on or beyond the touchline (or touch-in-goal line), picks up the ball, which was in motion within the playing area, that player is deemed to have picked up the ball in touch (or touch-in-goal).

19.6 HOW THE THROW-IN IS TAKEN
The player taking the throw-in must stand at the correct place. The player must not step into the field of play when the ball is thrown. The ball must be thrown straight so that it travels at least 5 metres along the line of touch before it first touches the ground or touches or is touched by a player.

19.7 INCORRECT THROW-IN
(a) If the throw-in at a lineout is incorrect, the opposing team has the choice of throwing in at a lineout or a scrum on the 15-metre line. If they choose the throw-in to the lineout and it is again incorrect, a scrum is formed. The team that took the first throw-in throws in the ball.
(b) The throw-in at the lineout must be taken without delay and without pretending to throw.
Sanction: Free Kick on the 15-metre line
(c) A player must not intentionally or repeatedly throw the ball in not straight.
Sanction: Penalty kick on the 15-metre line

19.8 FORMING A LINEOUT
(a) Minimum. At least two players from each team must form a lineout.
Sanction: Free Kick on the 15-metre line
(b) Maximum. The team throwing in the ball decides the maximum number of players in the lineout.
(c) The opposing team may have fewer lineout players but they must not have more.
Sanction: Free Kick on the 15-metre line
(d) When the ball is in touch, every player who approaches the line of touch is presumed to do so to form a lineout. Players who approach the line of touch must do so without delay. Players of either team must not leave the lineout once they have taken up a position in the lineout until the lineout has ended.
Sanction: Free Kick on the 15-metre line
(e) If the team throwing in the ball put fewer than the usual number of players in the lineout, their opponents must be given a reasonable time to move enough players out of the lineout to satisfy this Law.
Sanction: Free Kick on the 15-metre line
(f) These players must leave the lineout without delay. They must move to the offside line, 10 metres behind the line of touch. If the lineout ends before they reach this line, they may rejoin play.
Sanction: Free Kick on the 15-metre line
(g) Failure to form a lineout. A team must not voluntarily fail to form a lineout.
Sanction: Free Kick on the 15-metre line
(h) Where the lineout players must stand. The front of the lineout is not less than 5 metres from the touchline. The back of the lineout is not more than 15 metres from the touchline. All lineout players must stand between these two points.
Sanction: Free Kick on the 15-metre line
(i) Where the receiver must stand. If a team uses a receiver, then that player must be positioned at least 2m back from team mates in the lineout, and between the 5m and 15m lines, until the lineout begins.
Once the lineout has commenced, the receiver may move into the lineout and may perform all actions available to players in the lineout and is liable to related sanctions.
Sanction: Free kick on the 15-metre line along the line of touch
(j) Player between touch and 5 metres. The team not throwing in must have a player standing between the touchline and the 5-metre line on that team’s side of the line of touch when the lineout is formed. That player must stand 2 metres from the line of touch and 2 metres from the 5-metre line.
Sanction: Free Kick on the 15-metre line
(k) Participating players in a lineout may change places before the ball is thrown.
(l) Two single straight lines. The lineout players of both teams form two single parallel lines each at right angles to the touchline.
Sanction: Free Kick on the 15-metre line
(m) Opposing players forming a lineout must keep a clear space between their inside shoulders. This space is determined when players are in an upright stance.
Sanction: Free Kick on the 15-metre line
(n) Metre gap. Each line of players must be half a metre on their side of the line of touch.
Sanction: Free Kick on the 15-metre line
(o) The line of touch must not be within 5 metres of the goal line.
(p) After the lineout has formed, but before the ball has been thrown in, a player must not hold, push, charge into, or obstruct an opponent.
Sanction: Penalty kick on the 15-metre line

19.9 BEGINNING AND ENDING A LINEOUT
(a) Lineout begins. The lineout begins when the ball leaves the hands of the player throwing it in.
(b) Lineout ends. The lineout ends when the ball or a player carrying it leaves the lineout. This includes the following:
• When the ball is thrown, knocked or kicked out of the lineout, the lineout ends.
• When the ball or a player carrying the ball moves into the area between the 5-metre line and the touchline, the lineout ends.
• When a lineout player hands the ball to a player who is peeling off, the lineout ends.
• When the ball is thrown beyond the 15-metre line, or when a player takes or puts it beyond that line, the lineout ends.
• When a ruck or maul develops in a lineout, and all the feet of all the players in the ruck or maul move beyond the line of touch, the lineout ends.
• When the ball becomes unplayable in a lineout, the lineout ends. Play restarts with a scrum.

19.10 OPTIONS AVAILABLE IN A LINEOUT
(a) Levering on an opponent. A lineout player must not use an opponent as a support for jumping.
Sanction: Penalty kick on the 15-metre line
(b) Holding or shoving. A lineout player must not hold, push, charge, obstruct or grasp an opponent not holding the ball except when a ruck or maul is taking place.
Sanction: Penalty kick on the 15-metre line
(c) Illegal charging. A lineout player must not charge an opponent except in an attempt to tackle the opponent or to play the ball.
Sanction: Penalty kick on the 15-metre line
(d) Lifting and supporting. Players may assist a team-mate in jumping for the ball by lifting and supporting that player providing that the lifting and/or supporting players do not support the jumping team-mate below the shorts from behind or below the thighs from the front.
Sanction: Free Kick on the 15-metre line
(e) Pre-gripping is permitted. Players who are going to lift or support a team-mate jumping for the ball may pre-grip that team-mate providing they do not pre-grip below the shorts from behind and below the thighs from the front.
Sanction: Free Kick on the 15-metre line
(f) Jumping, supporting or lifting before the ball is thrown. A player must not jump or be lifted or supported before the ball has left the hands of the player throwing in.
Sanction: Free Kick on the 15-metre line
(g) Lowering a Player. Players who support a jumping team-mate must lower that player to the ground as soon as the ball has been won by a player of either team.
Sanction: Free Kick on the 15-metre line
(h) Blocking the throw-in. A lineout player must not stand less than 5 metres from the touchline. No player may block the throw-in or prevent the ball from travelling 5 metres.
Sanction: Free Kick on the 15-metre line
(i) When the ball has been thrown beyond a player in the lineout, that player may move to the space between the touchline and the 5-metre line. If the player moves into that space the player must not move towards that player's goal line before the lineout ends, except in a peeling off movement.
Sanction: Free Kick on the 15-metre line
(j) Catching or deflecting. When jumping for the ball, a player must use either both hands or the inside arm to try to catch or deflect the ball. The jumper must not use the outside arm alone to try to catch or deflect the ball. If the jumper has both hands above the head either hand may be used to play the ball.
Sanction: Free Kick on the 15-metre line
(k) Defending at a lineout. A player who jumps and gains possession of the ball in the lineout may be tackled immediately upon returning to the ground.
A player who gains possession of the ball in a lineout without jumping may be tackled immediately.
In both cases, these actions must be commenced before a maul has formed.
Sanction: Penalty kick on the 15-metre line

19.11 PLAYER THROWING-IN
There are four options available to the player throwing in:
(a) The thrower may stay within 5 metres of the touchline.
(b) The thrower may retire to the offside line 10 metres behind the line of touch.
(c) The thrower may join the lineout as soon as the ball has been thrown in.
(d) The thrower may move into the receiver position if that position is empty. If the thrower goes anywhere else, the thrower is offside.
Sanction: Penalty kick on the 15-metre line

19.12 PEELING OFF
DEFINITIONS
* A lineout player moving away from the lineout to catch the ball knocked or passed back by a team-mate.
(a) When: A player must not peel off until the ball has left the hands of the player throwing it in.
Sanction: 15-metre line, in line with the line of touch
(b) A player who peels off must stay within the area from that player's line of touch to 10 metres from the line of touch, and must keep moving until the lineout has ended.
Sanction: 15-metre line, in line with the line of touch
(c) Players may change their positions in the lineout before the ball is thrown in.

19.13 OFFSIDE LINES AT THE LINEOUT
(a) When a lineout forms, there are two separate offside lines, parallel to the goal lines, for the teams.
(b) Participating players. One offside line applies to the players taking part in the lineout (usually some or all of the forwards, plus the scrum half and the player throwing in). Until the ball is thrown in, and has touched a player or the ground, this offside line is the line of touch. After that, the offside line is a line through the ball.
(c) Players not taking part. The other offside line applies to the players not taking part in the lineout (usually the backs). For them, the offside line is 10 metres behind the line of touch or their goal line, if that is nearer.

19.14 OFFSIDE WHEN TAKING PART IN THE LINEOUT
(a) Before the ball has touched a player or the ground. A player must not overstep the line of touch. A player is offside if, before the ball has touched a player or the ground, that player oversteps the line of touch, unless doing so while jumping for the ball. The player must jump from that player's side of the line of touch.
Sanction: Penalty kick on the 15-metre line
(b) If a player jumps and crosses the line of touch but fails to catch the ball, that player is not penalised provided that player gets back onside without delay.
Players jumping for the ball may take a step in any direction providing they do not step across the line of touch.
Sanction: Penalty kick on the 15-metre line
(c) After the ball has touched a player or the ground. A player not carrying the ball is offside if, after the ball has touched a player or the ground, that player steps in front of the ball unless tackling (or trying to tackle) an opponent. Any attempt to tackle must start from that player's side of the ball.
Sanction: Penalty kick on the 15-metre line
(d) The referee must penalise any player who, intentionally or not, moves into an offside position without trying to win possession or tackle an opponent.
Sanction: Penalty kick on the 15-metre line
(e) No player of either team participating in the lineout may leave the lineout until it has ended.
Sanction: Penalty kick on the 15-metre line
(f) Long throw-in. If the player who is throwing in throws the ball beyond the 15-metre line, a player taking part in the lineout may run infield beyond the 15-metre line as soon as the ball leaves the hands of the player throwing in.
If this happens, an opponent may also run infield. If a player runs infield to take a long throw-in, and the ball is not thrown beyond the 15-metre line, this player is offside and must be penalised.
Sanction: Penalty kick on the 15-metre line
(g) Ruck and maul from a lineout. When a ruck or a maul develops in a lineout the offside line for a player taking part in the lineout no longer runs through the ball. The offside line is now the hindmost foot of that player’s team in the ruck or maul.
(h) The lineout ends when the ruck or maul leaves the line of touch. For this to happen, all the feet of all the players in the ruck or maul must have left the line of touch.
(i) A player taking part in the lineout must either join the ruck or maul, or retire to the offside line and stay at that line, otherwise that player is offside.
Sanction: Penalty kick on the 15-metre line
(j) The rest of the Law of ruck or maul applies. A player must not join the ruck or maul from the opponents’ side.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(k) Players must not join it in front of the offside line. If they do, they are offside.
Sanction: Penalty kick on the 15-metre line19.15 OFFSIDE WHEN NOT TAKING PART
(a) A player who is not taking part in the lineout is offside if that player oversteps the offside line before the lineout has ended.
Sanction: Penalty kick on the offending team’s offside line opposite the place of infringement, at least 15 metres from the touchline.
(b) Players not yet onside when the ball is thrown in. A player may throw in the ball even if a team-mate has not yet reached the offside line. However, if this player is not trying to reach an onside position without delay, this player is offside.
Sanction: Penalty kick on the offending team’s offside line opposite the place of infringement, at least 15 metres from the touchline.
(c) Long throw in. If the player who is throwing in throws the ball beyond the 15-metre line, a player of the same team may run forward to take the ball as soon as the ball leaves the hands of the player throwing in. If that player does so, opponents may also run forward. If a player runs forward to take a long throw in, and the ball is not thrown beyond the 15-metre line, this player is offside and must be penalised.
Sanction: Penalty kick on the offending team’s offside line opposite the place of infringement, at least 15 metres from the touchline.
(d) Ruck and maul from a lineout. When a ruck or maul develops in a lineout, the lineout has not ended until all the feet of all the players in the ruck or maul have moved beyond the line of touch.
Until then, the offside line for players not taking part in the lineout is still 10 metres behind the line of touch, or the goal line if that is nearer. A player who oversteps this offside line is offside.
Sanction: Penalty kick on the offside line, at least 15 metres from the touchline.

Law 20 Scrum
DEFINITIONS
The purpose of the scrum is to restart play quickly, safely and fairly, after a minor infringement or stoppage, in the field of play when eight players from each team, bound together in three rows for each team, close up with their opponents so that the heads of the front rows are interlocked. This creates a tunnel into which a scrum half throws the ball so that the front row players can compete for possession by hooking the ball with either of their feet.
The middle line is the imaginary line on the ground in the tunnel beneath the line where the two front rows meet.
The tunnel is the space between the two front rows.
The player of either team who throws the ball into the scrum is the scrum half.
The middle player in each front row is the hooker.
The players on either side of the hooker are the props. The left side props are the loose head props. The right side props are the tight head props.
The two players in the second row who push on the props and the hooker are the locks.
The outside players who bind onto the second or third row are the flankers.
The player in the third row who usually pushes on both locks is the No.8.
Alternatively, the No. 8 may push on a lock and a flanker.

20.1 FORMING A SCRUM
(a) Where the scrum takes place. The place for a scrum is where the infringement or stoppage happened, or as near to it as is practicable in the field of play, unless otherwise stated in Law.
(b) If this is less than 5 metres from a touchline, the place for the scrum is 5 metres from that touchline. A scrum can take place only in the field of play. The middle line of a scrum must not be within 5 metres of the goal line when it is formed.
(c) If there is an infringement or stoppage in in-goal, the place for the scrum is 5 metres from the goal-line. The scrum is formed in line with the infringement or stoppage.
(d) No delay. A team must not intentionally delay forming a scrum. A team must be ready for the referee to call ‘crouch’ within 30 seconds from the time the referee makes the mark for the scrum.
Sanction: Free Kick
(e) Number of players: eight. A scrum must have eight players from each team. All eight players must stay bound to the scrum until it ends. Each front row must have three players in it, no more and no less. Two locks must form the second row.
Sanction: Penalty kick
Exception: When a team is reduced to fewer than fifteen for any reason, then the number of players of each team in the scrum may be similarly reduced. Where a permitted reduction is made by one team, there is no requirement for the other team to make a similar reduction. However a team must not have fewer than five players in the scrum.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(f) Front rows coming together. First, the referee marks with a foot the place where the scrum is to be formed. Before the two front rows come together they must be standing no more than an arm’s length apart. The ball is in the scrum half's hands, ready to be thrown in. The front rows must crouch so that when they meet, each player's head and shoulders are no lower than the hips. The front rows must interlock ear against ear so that no player's head is next to the head of a team-mate.
Sanction: Free Kick
(g) The referee will call 'crouch' and then 'bind'. The front rows crouch and using their outside arm each prop must bind. A loose-head prop must bind on the opposing tight-head prop by placing the left arm inside the right arm of the tight head and gripping the tight-head prop’s jersey on the back or side. A tight-head prop must bind on the opposing loose-head prop by placing the right arm outside the left upper arm of the opposing loose-head prop and gripping the loose head prop’s jersey with the right hand only on the back or side. The props must not grip the opponent's chest, arm, sleeve or collar. Following a pause, the referee will then call 'set' when the front rows are ready. The front rows may then engage. The 'set' call is not a command but an indication that the front rows may come together when ready.
The sanction for any infringement will be a free kick.
Sanction: Free Kick
(h) A crouched position is the extension of the normal stance by bending the knees sufficiently to move into the engagement without a charge.
(i) Charging. A front row must not form at a distance from its opponents and rush against them or pull them. This is dangerous play.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(j) Stationary and parallel. Until the ball leaves the scrum half’s hands, the scrum must be stationary and the middle line must be parallel to the goal lines. A team must not shove the scrum away from the mark before the ball is thrown in.
Sanction: Free Kick

20.2 FRONT-ROW PLAYERS’ POSITIONS
(a) All players in a position to shove. When a scrum has formed, the body and feet of each front row player must be in a normal position to make a forward shove.
Sanction: Free Kick
(b) This means that the front row players must have both feet on the ground, with their weight firmly on at least one foot. Players must not cross their feet, although the foot of one player may cross a team-mate's foot. Each player's shoulders must be no lower than the hips.
Sanction: Free Kick
(c) Hooker in a position to hook. Until the ball is thrown in, the hooker must be in a position to hook the ball. The hookers must have both feet on the ground, with their weight firmly on at least one foot. A hooker's foremost foot must not be in front of the foremost foot of that team's props.
Sanction: Free Kick

20.3 BINDING IN THE SCRUM
DEFINITIONS
When a player binds on a team-mate that player must use the whole arm from hand to shoulder to grasp the team-mate’s body at or below the level of the armpit. Placing only a hand on another player is not satisfactory binding.
(a) Binding by all front row players. All front row players must bind firmly and continuously from the start to the finish of the scrum.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(b) Binding by hookers. The hooker may bind either over or under the arms of the props. The props must not support the hooker so that the hooker has no weight on either foot.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(c) Binding by loose head props. A loose head prop must bind on the opposing tight head prop by placing the left arm inside the right arm of the tight head and gripping the tight head prop’s jersey on the back or side. The loose head prop must not grip the chest, arm, sleeve or collar of the opposition tight head prop. The loose head prop must not exert any downward pressure.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(d) Binding by tight head props. A tight head prop must bind on the opposing loose head prop by placing the right arm outside the left upper arm of the opposing loose head prop. The tight head prop must grip the loose head prop’s jersey with the right hand only on the back or side. The tight head prop must not grip the chest, arm, sleeve or collar of the opposition loose head prop. The tight head prop must not exert any downward pressure.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(e) Both the loose head and tight head props may alter their bind providing they do so in accordance with this Law.
(f) Binding by all other players. All players in a scrum, other than front-row players, must bind on a lock's body with at least one arm prior to the scrum engagement. The locks must bind with the props in front of them. No other player other than a prop may hold an opponent.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(g) Flanker obstructing opposing scrum half. A flanker may bind onto the scrum at any angle, provided the flanker is properly bound. The flanker must not widen that angle and so obstruct the opposing scrum half moving forward.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(h) Scrum collapse. If a scrum collapses, the referee must blow the whistle immediately so that players stop pushing.
(i) Player forced upwards. If a player in a scrum is lifted in the air, or is forced upwards out of the scrum, the referee must blow the whistle immediately so that players stop pushing.

20.4 THE TEAM THROWING THE BALL INTO THE SCRUM
(a) After an infringement, the team that did not cause the infringement throw in the ball.
(b) Scrum after ruck. Refer to Law 16.7.
(c) Scrum after maul. Refer to Law 17.6.
(d) Scrum after any other stoppage. After any other stoppage or irregularity not covered by Law, the team that was moving forward before the stoppage throws in the ball. If neither team was moving forward, the attacking team throws in the ball.
(e) When a scrum remains stationary and the ball does not emerge immediately a further scrum is ordered at the place of the stoppage. The ball is thrown in by the team not in possession at the time of the stoppage.
(f) When a scrum becomes stationary and does not start moving immediately, the ball must emerge immediately. If it does not a further scrum will be ordered. The ball is thrown in by the team not in possession at the time of the stoppage.
(g) If a scrum collapses or lifts up into the air without sanction a further scrum will be ordered and the team who originally threw in the ball will throw the ball in again.
If a scrum has to be reformed for any other reason not covered in this Law the team who originally threw in the ball will throw the ball in again.

20.5 THROWING THE BALL INTO THE SCRUM
No Delay. As soon as the front rows have come together, the scrum half must throw in the ball without delay. The scrum half must throw in the ball when told to do so by the referee. The scrum half must throw in the ball from the side of the scrum first chosen.
Sanction: Free Kick

20.6 HOW THE SCRUM HALF THROWS IN THE BALL
(a) The scrum half must stand one metre from the mark on the middle line so that player's head does not touch the scrum or go beyond the nearest front row player.
Sanction: Free Kick
(b) The scrum half must hold the ball with both hands, with its major axis parallel to the ground and to the touchline over the middle line between the front rows, mid-way between knee and ankle.
Sanction: Free Kick
(c) The scrum half must throw in the ball at a quick speed. The ball must be released from the scrum half's hands from outside the tunnel.
Sanction: Free Kick
(d) The scrum half must throw in the ball straight along the middle line, so that it first touches the ground immediately beyond the width of the nearer prop's shoulders.
Sanction: Free Kick
(e) The scrum half must throw in the ball with a single forward movement. This means that there must be no backward movement with the ball. The scrum half must not pretend to throw the ball.
Sanction: Free Kick

20.7 WHEN THE SCRUM BEGINS
(a) Play in the scrum begins when the ball leaves the hands of the scrum half.
(b) If the scrum half throws in the ball and it comes out at either end of the tunnel, the ball must be thrown in again unless a free kick or penalty has been awarded.
(c) If the ball is not played by a front row player, and it goes straight through the tunnel and comes out behind the foot of a far prop without being touched, the scrum half must throw it in again.

20.8 FRONT-ROW PLAYERS
(a) Striking before the throw-in (‘foot up’). All front row players must place their feet to leave a clear tunnel. Until the ball has left the scrum half's hands, they must not raise or advance a foot. They must not do anything to stop the ball being thrown in to the scrum correctly or touching the ground at the correct place.
Sanction: Free Kick
(b) Striking after the throw-in. Once the ball touches the ground in the tunnel, any front row player may use either foot to try to win possession of the ball.
(c) Kicking-out. A front row player must not intentionally kick the ball out of the tunnel in the direction from which it was thrown in.
Sanction: Free Kick
(d) If the ball is kicked out unintentionally, the same team must throw it in again.
(e) If the ball is repeatedly kicked out, the referee must treat this as intentional and penalise the offender.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(f) Swinging. A front row player must not strike for the ball with both feet. No player may intentionally raise both feet from the ground, either when the ball is being thrown in or afterwards.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(g) Twisting, dipping or collapsing. Front row players must not twist or lower their bodies, or pull opponents, or do anything that is likely to collapse the scrum, either when the ball is being thrown in or afterwards.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(h) Referees must penalise strictly any intentional collapsing of the scrum. This is dangerous play.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(i) Lifting or forcing an opponent up. A front row player must not lift an opponent in the air, or force an opponent upwards out of the scrum, either when the ball is being thrown in or afterwards. This is dangerous play.
Sanction: Penalty kick

20.9 SCRUM-GENERAL RESTRICTIONS
(a) All players: Collapsing. A player must not intentionally collapse a scrum. A player must not intentionally fall or kneel in a scrum. This is dangerous play.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(b) All players: Handling in the scrum. Players must not handle the ball in the scrum or pick it up with their legs.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(c) All players: Other restrictions on winning the ball. Players must not try to win the ball in the scrum by using any part of their body except their foot or lower leg.
Sanction: Free Kick
(d) All players: When the ball comes out, leave it out. When the ball has left the scrum, a player must not bring it back in to the scrum.
Sanction: Free Kick
(e) All players: No falling on the ball. A player must not fall on or over the ball as it is coming out of the scrum.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(f) Locks and flankers: Staying out of the tunnel. A player who is not a front row player must not play the ball in the tunnel.
Sanction: Free Kick
(g) Scrum half: Kicking in the scrum. A scrum half must not kick the ball while it is in the scrum.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(h) Scrum half: Dummying. A scrum half must not take any action to make the opponents think that the ball is out of the scrum while it is still in the scrum.
Sanction: Free Kick
(i) Scrum half: Holding opposing flanker. A scrum half must not grasp an opposing flanker.
Sanction: Penalty kick

20.10 ENDING THE SCRUM
(a) The ball comes out. When the ball comes out of the scrum in any direction except the tunnel, the scrum ends.
(b) Scrum in the in-goal. A scrum cannot take place in the in-goal. When the ball in a scrum is on or over the goal line, the scrum ends and an attacker or a defender may legally ground the ball for a try or a touch down.
(c) Hindmost player unbinds. The hindmost player in a scrum is the player whose feet are nearest the team's own goal line. If the hindmost player unbinds from the scrum with the ball at that player's feet and picks up the ball, the scrum ends.
(d) When a team has the ball at the number 8’s feet, and is trying to move forward but is not succeeding in doing so, the referee will call "use it" once the ball has been at the number 8's feet for a reasonable amount of time (3-5 seconds). The team must then use the ball immediately.

20.11 SCRUM WHEELED
(a) If a scrum is wheeled through more than 90 degrees, so that the middle line has passed beyond a position parallel to the touchline, the referee must stop play and order another scrum.
(b) This new scrum is formed at the place where the previous scrum ended. The ball is thrown in by the team that previously threw it in.

20.12 OFFSIDE AT THE SCRUM
(a) When the scrum is set, the scrum half not throwing the ball into the scrum must take up a position either at the same side of the scrum as the scrum half throwing in the ball or behind the offside line defined for other players.
(b) Offside for scrum-halves. When a team has won the ball in a scrum, the scrum half of that team is offside if both feet are in front of the ball while it is still in the scrum. If the scrum half has only one foot in front of the ball, the scrum half is not offside.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(c) When a team has won the ball in a scrum, the scrum half of the opposing team is offside if that scrum half steps in front of the ball with either foot while the ball is still in the scrum. This scrum-half may not move into the space between the flanker and No. 8 when following the ball through the scrum.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(d) The scrum half whose team does not win possession of the ball must not move to the opposite side of the scrum and overstep the offside line. For that scrum half that runs through the hindmost foot of that player's team in the scrum.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(e) The scrum half whose team does not win possession of the ball must not move away from the scrum and then remain in front of the offside line. For that scrum half that runs through the hindmost foot of that player's team in the scrum.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(f) Any player may be scrum half, but a team can have only one scrum half at each scrum.
Sanction: Penalty kick on the offside line
(g) Offside for players not in the scrum. Players who are not in the scrum and who are not the team's scrum half, are offside if they remain in front of their offside line or overstep the offside line which is a line parallel to the goal lines and 5 metres behind the hindmost player of each team in a scrum.
Sanction: Penalty kick on the offside line
(h) If the hindmost foot of a team is on or behind that team's goal line, the offside line for scrum halves and non-participants is the goal line.
(i) Loitering. When a scrum is forming, players not taking part in it must retire to their offside line without delay. If they do not, they are loitering. Loiterers must be penalised.
Sanction: Penalty kick on the offside line

20.13 UNDER 19 VARIATIONS IN ADULT MATCHES
A Union may implement the Under 19 Scrum Law Variations at defined levels of the Game within its jurisdiction.

Law 21 Penalty and Free Kicks
DEFINITIONS
Penalty kicks and free kicks are awarded to the opposing team for infringements by their opponents.

21.1 WHERE PENALTY AND FREE KICKS ARE TAKEN
Unless a Law states otherwise, the mark for a penalty or free kick is at the place of infringement.

21.2 WHERE PENALTY AND FREE KICKS ARE TAKEN
(a) The kicker must take the penalty or free kick at the mark or anywhere behind it on a line through the mark. If the place for a penalty or free kick is within 5 metres of the goal line, the mark for the kick is 5 metres from the goal line, opposite the place of infringement.
(b) When a penalty or free kick is awarded in in-goal, the mark for the kick is in the field of play, 5 metres from the goal line, in line with the place of infringement.
Sanction: Any infringement by the kicker’s team results in a scrum 5 metres from the goal line in line with the mark. The opposing team throws in the ball.
(c) If a quickly taken penalty kick or free kick is taken from the wrong place the referee will order the kick to be taken again.

21.3 HOW THE PENALTY AND FREE KICKS ARE TAKEN
(a) Any player may take a penalty or free kick awarded for an infringement with any type of kick, punt, drop kick or place kick. The ball may be kicked with any part of the lower leg from knee to the foot, excluding the knee and the heel.
(b) Bouncing the ball on the knee is not taking a kick.
Sanction: Any infringement by the kicker’s team results in a scrum at the mark. The opposing team throws in the ball.
(c) The kicker must use the ball that was in play unless the referee decides it was defective.
Sanction: Any infringement by the kicker’s team results in a scrum at the mark. The opposing team throws in the ball.

21.4 FREE KICK OPTIONS AND REQUIREMENTS
(a) Scrum alternative. A team awarded a penalty or free kick may choose a scrum instead. They throw in the ball.
(b) Lineout alternative. A team awarded a penalty or a free kick at a lineout may choose a further lineout into which they throw in. This is in addition to the scrum option.
(c) No delay. If a kicker indicates to the referee the intention to kick a penalty kick at goal, the kick must be taken within one minute from the time the player indicates the intention to kick at goal. The intention to kick is signalled by the arrival of the kicking tee or sand, or when the player makes a mark on the ground. The player must complete the kick within one minute even if the ball rolls over and has to be placed again. If the one minute is exceeded, the kick is disallowed, a scrum is ordered at the place of the mark and the opponents throw in the ball. For any other type of kick, the kick must be taken without undue delay.
(d) A clear kick. The kicker must kick the ball a visible distance. If the kicker is holding it, it must clearly leave the hands. If it is on the ground, it must clearly leave the mark.
(e) Place kicking for touch. The kicker may punt or drop kick for touch but must not place kick for touch.
(f) Kicker’s freedom of action. The kicker is free to kick the ball in any direction and may play the ball again.
(g) Kick taken in the in-goal. If a player retires into in-goal to take a penalty or free kick awarded in the field of play and a defending player by foul play prevents an opponent from scoring a try a penalty try is awarded.
(h) Out of play in the in-goal. If a player retires into in-goal to take a penalty or free kick awarded in the field of play and following the kick the ball goes into touch in-goal or on or over the dead ball line, or a defending player makes the ball dead before it has crossed the goal line, a 5-metre scrum is awarded. The attacking team throws in the ball.
(i) Behind the ball. All the kicker’s team at a penalty or free kick must be behind the ball until it has been kicked, except the placer for a place kick.
(j) Kick taken quickly. If the penalty or free kick is taken so quickly that players of the kicker’s team are still in front of the ball, they are not penalised for being offside. However, they must retire immediately. They must not stop retiring until they are onside. They must not take part in the game until they are onside. This applies to all players of that team, whether they are inside or outside the playing area.
(k) In this situation, players become onside when they run behind the team-mate who took the penalty or free kick, or when a team-mate carrying the ball runs in front of them, or when a team-mate who was behind the ball when it was kicked runs in front of them.
(l) An offside player cannot be put onside by any action of an opponent.
Sanction: Unless otherwise stated in Law any infringement by the kicker’s team results in a scrum at the mark. The opposing team throw in the ball.

21.5 SCORING A GOAL FROM A PENALTY KICK
(a) A penalty goal can be scored from a penalty kick.
(b) If the kicker indicates to the referee the intention to kick at goal, the kicker must kick at goal. Once the kicker has made the intention clear, there can be no change of the intention. The referee may enquire of the kicker as to the intention.
(c) If the kicker indicates to the referee the intent to kick at goal, the opposing team must stand still with their hands by their sides from the time the kicker starts to approach to kick until the ball is kicked.
(d) If the kicker has not indicated an intention to kick at goal but takes a drop kick and scores a goal, the goal stands.
(e) If the opposing team infringes while the kick is being taken but the kick at goal is successful, the goal stands. A further penalty is not awarded for the infringement.
(f) The kicker may place the ball directly on the ground or on sand, sawdust or a kicking tee approved by the Union.
Sanction: Unless otherwise stated in Law any infringement by the kicker’s team results in a scrum at the mark. The opposing team throws in the ball.

21.6 SCORING FROM A FREE KICK
(a) A goal cannot be scored from a free kick.
(b) The team awarded a free kick cannot score a dropped goal until after the ball next becomes dead, or until after an opponent has played or touched it, or has tackled the ball carrier. This restriction applies also to a scrum or lineout taken instead of a free kick.

21.7 WHAT THE OPPOSING TEAM MUST DO AT A PENALTY KICK
(a) Must run from the mark. The opposing team must immediately run towards their own goal line until they are at least 10 metres away from the mark for the penalty kick, or until they have reached their goal line if that is nearer the mark.
(b) Must keep running. Even if the penalty kick is taken and the kicker’s team is playing the ball, opposing players must keep running until they have retired the necessary distance. They must not take part in the game until they have done so.
(c) Kick taken quickly. If the penalty kick is taken so quickly that opponents have no opportunity to retire, they will not be penalised for this. However, they must continue to retire as described in 21.7(b) above or until a team-mate who was 10 metres from the mark has run in front of them, before they take part in the game.
(d) Interference. The opposing team must not do anything to delay the penalty kick or obstruct the kicker. They must not intentionally take, throw or kick the ball out of reach of the kicker or the kicker's team mates.
Sanction: Any infringement by the opposing team results in a second penalty kick, 10 metres in front of the mark for the first kick. This mark must not be within 5 metres of the goal line. Any player may take the kick. The kicker may change the type of kick and may choose to kick at goal. If the referee awards a second penalty kick, the second penalty kick is not taken before the referee has made the mark indicating the place of the penalty.

21.8 WHAT THE OPPOSING TEAM HAVE AT A FREE KICK
(a) Must run from the mark. The opposing team must immediately run towards their own goal line until they are at least 10 metres away from the mark for the free kick, or until they have reached their goal line if that is nearer the mark. If the free kick is in a defending team's in-goal area, the opposing team must immediately run towards their own goal line until they are at least 10 metres away from the mark and not nearer than 5 metres from the goal line.
(b) Must keep running. Even if the free kick is taken and the kicker's team is playing the ball, opposing players must keep running until they have retired the necessary distance. They must not take part in the game until they have done so.
(c) Kick taken quickly. If the free kick is taken so quickly that opponents have no opportunity to retire, they will not be penalised for this. However, they must continue to retire as described in 21.8(b) above or until a team-mate who was 10 metres from the mark has run in front of them, before they take part in the game.
(d) Interference. The opposing team must not do anything to delay the free kick or obstruct the kicker. They must not intentionally take, throw or kick the ball out of reach of the kicker or the kicker's team mates.
(e) Charging the free kick. Once they have retired the necessary distance, players of the opposing team may charge and try to prevent the kick being taken. They may charge the free kick as soon as the kicker starts to approach to kick.
(f) Preventing the free kick. If the opposing team charge and prevent the free kick being taken, the kick is disallowed. Play restarts with a scrum at the mark. The opposing team throw in the ball.
(g) Free kick taken in the in-goal. If a free kick has been awarded and the player retires into in-goal to take it and the opponents charge and prevent the kick from being taken, a 5-metre scrum is ordered. The attacking team throws in the ball. If a free kick is taken in in-goal, an opponent who legitimately plays it there can score a try.
(h) Charged down. If opponents charge down a free kick in the playing area, play continues.
Sanction: Any infringement by the opposing team results in a second free kick, awarded 10 metres in front of the mark for the first kick. This mark must not be within 5 metres of the goal line. Any player may take the kick. If the referee awards a second free kick, the second free kick is not taken before the referee has made the mark indicating the place of the free kick.

21.9 CONTRIVED INFRINGEMENTS AT THE KICK
If the referee believes that the kicker's team has contrived an infringement by their opponents, the referee does not award a further penalty but allows play to continue.
(a) The kicker must not pretend to kick. As soon as the kicker makes a move to kick, the opponents may charge.
(b) If the referee believes that the kicker's team has contrived an infringement by their opponents, the referee does not award a further free kick but allows play to continue.

Law 22 In-Goal
DEFINITIONS
In-goal is part of the ground as defined in Law 1, where the ball is grounded by players from either team.
When attacking players are first to ground the ball in the opponents' in-goal, the attacking players score a try.
When defending players are first to ground the ball in their in-goal, the defending players make a touch down.
A defending player who has one foot on the goal line or in in-goal who receives the ball is considered to have both feet in in-goal.

22.1 GROUNDING THE BALL
There are two ways a player can ground the ball:
(a) Player touches the ground with the ball. A player grounds the ball by holding the ball and touching the ground with it, in in-goal. 'Holding' means holding in the hand or hands, or in the arm or arms. No downward pressure is required.
(b) Player presses down on the ball. A player grounds the ball when it is on the ground in the in-goal and the player presses down on it with a hand or hands, arm or arms, or the front of the player's body from waist to neck inclusive.

22.2 PICKING UP THE BALL
Picking up the ball from the ground is not grounding it. A player may pick up the ball in the in-goal and ground it elsewhere in the in-goal.

22.3 BALL GROUNDED BY AN ATTACKING PLAYER
(a) Try. When an attacking player who is onside is first to ground the ball in the opponents' in-goal, the player scores a try. This applies whether an attacking or a defending player is responsible for the ball being in the in-goal.
(b) When an attacking player who has possession of the ball grounds the ball in in-goal and simultaneously contacts the touch-in-goal line or the dead-ball-line (or anywhere beyond), a 22m drop-out is awarded to the defending team.

22.4 OTHER WAYS TO SCORE A TRY
(a) Grounded on the goal line. The goal line is part of the in-goal. If an attacking player is first to ground the ball on the opponents' goal line, a try is scored.
(b) Grounded against a goal post. The goal posts and padding surrounding them are part of the goal line, which is part of in-goal. If an attacking player is first to ground the ball against a goal post or padding, a try is scored.
(c) Pushover try. A scrum or ruck cannot take place in the in-goal. If a scrum or ruck is pushed into the in-goal, an attacking player may legally ground the ball as soon as the ball reaches or crosses the goal line and a try is scored.
(d) Momentum try. If an attacking player with the ball is tackled short of the goal line but the player’s momentum carries the player in a continuous movement along the ground into the opponents' in-goal, and the player is first to ground the ball, a try is scored.
(e) Tackled near the goal line. If a player is tackled near to the opponents' goal line so that this player can immediately reach out and ground the ball on or over the goal line, a try is scored.
(f) In this situation, defending players who are on their feet may legally prevent the try by pulling the ball from the tackled player's hands or arms, but must not kick the ball.
(g) Player in touch or touch-in-goal. If an attacking player is in touch or in touch-in-goal, the player can score a try by grounding the ball in the opponents' in-goal provided the player is not carrying the ball.
(h) Penalty try. A penalty try is awarded if a try would probably have been scored but for foul play by the defending team. A penalty try is awarded if a try would probably have been scored in a better position but for foul play by the defending team.
(i) A penalty try is awarded between the goal posts. The defending team may charge the conversion kick after a penalty try.

22.5 BALL GROUNDED BY A DEFENDING PLAYER
(a) Touch down. When defending players are first to ground the ball in their in-goal, it results in a touch down.
(b) Player in touch or touch-in-goal. If defending players are in touch-in-goal, they can make a touch down by grounding the ball in their in-goal provided they are not carrying the ball.
(c) Grounded against a goal post. The goal posts and padding surrounding them are part of the goal line. If a defending player is first to ground the ball against a goal post or padding, the result is a touch down.

22.6 SCRUM, RUCK OR MAUL PUSHED INTO IN-GOAL
A scrum, ruck or maul can take place only in the field of play. As soon as a scrum, ruck or maul is pushed across the goal line, a player may legally ground the ball. This results in a touch down or try.

22.7 RESTARTING AFTER A TOUCH DOWN
(a) When an attacking player sends or carries the ball into the opponents' in-goal and it becomes dead there, either because a defender grounded it or because it went into touch-in-goal or on or over the dead ball line, a drop out is awarded.
(b) If an attacking player knocks-on or throws-forward in the field of play and the ball goes into the opponents' in-goal and it is made dead there, a scrum is awarded where the knock-on or throw forward happened.
(c) If, at a kick-off or drop-out, the ball is kicked into the opponents' in-goal without having touched or been touched by a player and a defending player grounds it there or makes it dead without delay, the defending team have two choices:
* To have a scrum formed at the centre of the line from which the kick was taken and they throw in the ball; or
* To have the other team kick off or drop out again.
(d) If a defending player threw or took the ball into the in-goal, and a defending player grounded it and there has been no infringement, play is restarted by a 5-metre scrum. The position of the scrum is in line with where the ball has been touched down. The attacking side throws in the ball.
(e) If a defending team has put the ball into their own in-goal and a defending player kicks the ball so that is charged down in in-goal and then made dead, the attacking side is awarded a 5-metre scrum in line with where the ball is made dead and they throw in the ball.

22.8 BALL KICKED DEAD THROUGH IN-GOAL
If a team kicks the ball through their opponents’ in-goal into touch-in-goal or on or over the dead ball line, except by an unsuccessful kick at goal or attempted dropped goal, the defending team has two choices:
* To have a drop out; or
* To have a scrum at the place where the ball was kicked and they throw in.

22.9 PLAYER IN IN-GOAL
(a) A defending player who has part of one foot in in-goal is considered to have both feet in in-goal.
(b) If a player with one or both feet on or behind the goal line, picks up the ball, which was stationary within the field of play, that player has picked up the ball in the field of play and thereby that player has taken the ball into in-goal.
(c) If a player with one or both feet on or behind the goal line picks up the ball, which was in motion within the field of play, that player has picked up the ball within in-goal.
(d) If a player with one or both feet on or behind the dead ball line, picks up the ball, which was stationary within in-goal, that player deemed has picked up the ball in in-goal and thereby that player has made the ball dead.
(e) If a player with one or both feet on or behind the dead ball line picks up the ball, which was in motion within in-goal, that player has picked up the ball outside the playing area.

22.10 BALL HELD UP IN-GOAL
When a player carrying the ball is held up in the in-goal so that the player cannot ground the ball, the ball is dead. A 5-metre scrum is formed. This would apply if play similar to a maul takes place in in-goal. The attacking team throws in the ball.

22.11 BALL DEAD IN IN-GOAL
(a) When the ball touches the touch-in-goal line or the dead ball line, or touches anything or anyone beyond those lines, the ball becomes dead. If the ball was played into in-goal by the attacking team, a drop-out shall be awarded to the defending team. If the ball was played into in-goal by the defending team, a 5-metre scrum shall be awarded and the attacking team throws in the ball.
(b) When a player carrying the ball touches the touch-in-goal line, the dead ball line, or touches the ground beyond those lines, the ball becomes dead. If the ball was carried into in-goal by the attacking team, a drop-out shall be awarded to the defending team. If the ball was carried into in-goal by the defending team, a 5-metre scrum shall be awarded and the attacking team throws in the ball.
(c) When a player scores a try or makes a touch down, the ball becomes dead.

22.12 BALL OR PLAYER TOUCHING A FLAG OR FLAG (CORNER) POST
If the ball or a player carrying the ball touches a flag or a flag (corner) post at the intersection of the touch-in-goal lines and the goal lines or at the intersection of the touch-in-goal lines and the dead ball lines without otherwise being in touch or touch-in-goal the ball is not out of play unless it is first grounded against a flag post.

22.13 ATTACKING INFRINGEMENT WITH SCRUM SANCTION
If an attacking player commits an infringement in in-goal, for which the sanction is a scrum, for example, a knock-on, play is restarted with a 5-metre scrum. The scrum is formed in line with the place of the infringement and the defending team throws in the ball.

22.14 A DEFENDING INFRINGEMENT WITH SCRUM SANCTION
If a defending player infringes in in-goal, for which the sanction is a scrum, for example, a knock-on, play is restarted with a 5-metre scrum. The scrum is formed in line with the place of the infringement and the attacking team throws in the ball.

22.15 DOUBT ABOUT GROUNDING
If there is doubt about which team first grounded the ball in the in-goal, play is re-started by a 5-metre scrum, in line with the place where the ball was grounded. The attacking team throws in the ball.

22.16 INFRINGEMENTS IN IN-GOAL
All infringements in the in-goal are treated as if they had taken place in the field of play.
A knock-on or a throw forward in the in-goal results in a 5-metre scrum, opposite the place of infringement.
Sanction: For an infringement, the mark for a penalty or free kick cannot be in the in-goal. When a penalty kick or free kick is awarded for an infringement in the in-goal, the mark for the kick is in the field of play, 5 metres from the goal line, opposite the place of infringement.

22.17 MISCONDUCT OR UNFAIR PLAY IN IN-GOAL
(a) Obstruction by the attacking team. When a player charges or intentionally obstructs an opponent in the in-goal who has just kicked the ball, the opponent's team may choose to take the penalty kick either in the field of play, 5 metres from the goal line opposite the place of infringement, or where the ball landed.
If they make the second choice and the ball lands in or near touch, the mark for the penalty kick is 15 metres from the touchline, opposite where the ball went into touch or where it landed.
A try is disallowed and a penalty kick awarded if a try would probably not have been scored but for foul play by the attacking team.
(b) Foul play by the defending team. The referee awards a penalty try if a try would probably have been scored but for foul play by the defending team.
The referee awards a penalty try if a try would probably have been scored in a better position but for foul play by the defending team.
A penalty try is awarded between the goal posts. The defending team may charge the conversion kick after a penalty try.
A player who prevents a try being scored through foul play must either be cautioned and temporarily suspended or sent off.
(c) Any other foul play. When a player commits any other foul play in the in-goal while the ball is out of play, the penalty kick is awarded at the place where the game would otherwise have restarted.
Sanction: Penalty kick