The LAWS OF THE GAME OF RUGBY FOOTBALL as framed by The International Rugby Football Board.

LAW 1. Plan of the Field
Notes.—H Indicates Post with Flag.
Length and breadth of Field to be as near to dimensions indicated as possible.
___ __ — These broken lines indicate 10 yards distance from the half-way line and 5 yard distance from the Touch Lines.
Goal dimensions—10 feet is taken from the ground to the top edge of the Crossbar and 18 ft 6 in. from inside to inside of the goal posts.

Part I.—Definitions, and Glossary of Terms.
LAW 2. The following terms have the meaning assigned to them, that is to say:—
“Beyond” or “Behind” or “In front” of any position indicated implies “with both feet” except when unsuited to the context.

Dead means that the ball is for the time being out of play, an event that occurs when the Referee’s whistle is blown, or as under:—
After a tackle, after a touch-down, after a try has been scored, after an unsuccessful attempt to convert a try or after a goal has been kicked.
When, not being in the possession of a player, the ball touches a corner post, or touches or crosses a touch line, touch-in-goal line or dead ball line.
When the ball in a player’s possession or a player carrying it touches a corner post, or touches a touch line, touch-in-goal line, dead ball line, or the ground beyond them.
When the ball or a player carrying it touches the Referee.

Fair-catch. A fair-catch is obtained when a player catches the ball direct from a kick, knock-on or throw forward by one of the opposing team if at the same time the catcher makes a mark on the ground with his heel.
A fair catch can be made in a player’s own In-goal.

Field-of-play. The field-of-play is the space as shewn on the plan, bounded by, but not including, the Goal Lines and Touch Lines.

Goal. A goal is obtained by kicking the ball over the opponents’ cross bar from the field-of-play, by any place kick or drop kick except a kick-off or drop-out, without touching the ground or any player of either team.
A goal is scored if the ball has crossed the bar, even though it may have been blown back afterwards, and whether it has touched the cross bar or either goal post or not.
A goal is scored if the ball has crossed the bar after it has been illegally touched by a player of the opposing team.
A goal may be awarded if the ball is illegally touched by any player of the opposing team if the referee is of the opinion that a goal would otherwise undoubtedly have been obtained.

Grounding the ball. Grounding the ball is the act of a player touching the ball down on the ground with his hand or hands.
Note:—Picking up the ball from the ground is not “grounding” it.

Kicks.
Kick. A kick is made by propelling the ball with the foot, or leg from the knee to the toe inclusive.
Drop Kick. A drop kick is made by a player in possession of the ball letting it fall from the hand or hands to the ground and kicking it at the first rebound as it rises.
Place Kick. A place kick is made by kicking the ball after it has been placed on the ground for that purpose.
Punt. A punt is made by a player in possession of the ball letting it fall from the hand or hands and kicking it before it touches the ground.
Drop-out. A drop-out is a drop kick taken by the defending team after a touch-down or after the ball has been in touch-in-goal or has touched or crossed the dead ball line.
Free Kick. A free kick is a kick allowed for a fair-catch. It may be taken by a place kick, drop kick or punt.

Kick-off. Kick-off is a place kick from the centre of the half-way line taken:—
(a) at the beginning of a match,
(b) on the resumption of play after the half-time interval,
(c) after a goal has been kicked,
or a drop kick at or from behind the centre of the half-way line after an unconverted try.

Penalty Kick. A penalty kick is a kick awarded to the non-offending team by reason of an infringement of the Laws by their opponents. It may be taken by a place kick, drop kick or punt.

Knock-on, Throw-forward, Rebound:—
Knock-on. A Knock-on occurs when the ball, after striking the hand or arm of a player, travels in the direction of his opponents’ dead ball line.
Throw-forward. A throw-forward occurs when the ball is propelled by the hand or arm of a player in the direction of his opponents’ dead ball line.
Rebound. A rebound occurs when the ball, after striking any part of a player except his hand, arm, or leg from the knee to the toe inclusive, travels in the direction of his opponents’ dead ball line.

Mark. The mark is the place at which a free kick or penalty kick is awarded.

No-side. The end of a match.

Off-side denotes that a player is in such a position that he is out of the Game, and that it is illegal for him to play the ball or interfere with an opponent.

On-side denotes that a player is in the Game and not off-side.

Scrummage. A scrummage, which can only take place in the field of play, is formed by one or more players from each team closing round the ball when it is on the ground, or by players of each team closing up in readiness to allow the ball to be put on the ground between them in accordance with Law 15.

Tackle. A tackle occurs when the holder of the ball in the field of play is held by one or more players of the opposing team so that while he is so held the ball comes in contact with the ground, or there is a moment when he cannot pass or play the ball.

Touch-down. A touch-down is obtained by the act of a defending player grounding the ball in his own In-goal.

Try. A try is obtained by the act of an attacking player first grounding the ball in his opponents’ In-goal.

Part II.—Preliminary.

LAW 3. Ground.
All lines shewn on the plan must be suitably marked out. The touch lines are in touch. The goal lines are in In-goal. The Touch-in-goal lines and corner posts are in Touch-in-goal. The goal posts are to be erected in the goal lines.
Any objection by the visiting team arising in connection with the subject matter of Laws 1 and 3 must be made before the first kick-off.

LAW 4. Ball.
The ball shall be oval in shape and of the following description, as far as possible:—
Length in line: 11 to 11 1/4 ins.
Circumference (end on): 30 to 31 ins.
Circumference (in width): 24 to 25 1/2 ins.
Weight: 13 1/2 to 15 ozs.

LAW 5. Players’ Dress.
A player may not wear dangerous projections—buckles, rings, etc. Any studs on his boots must be of leather, circular, fastened by at least three nails and of the following dimensions, namely:—
Maximum length (measured from sole): 3/4 in.
Minimum diameter at base: 5/8 in.
Minimum diameter at top: 3/8 in.

LAW 6. Appointment of Referee and Touch Judges.
In all matches a Referee and two Touch Judges must be appointed or mutually agreed upon.

LAW 7. Method of Scoring.
A try: 3 points
A goal from a try (in which case the try shall not count): 5 points
A goal from a free kick or penalty kick: 3 points
A dropped goal otherwise obtained: 4 points

LAW 8. Time, etc.
In International matches two periods of 40 minutes each shall be played; in other matches the duration of play shall be agreed upon by the respective teams, or if not agreed upon shall be fixed by the Referee.
Play shall be divided into halves. At half-time there shall be an interval of not more than five minutes. A period not exceeding three minutes shall be allowed for any other permitted delay. At half-time the teams shall change over.

LAW 9. Before a match begins the captains shall toss for the right to kick-off or the choice of ends.

LAW 10. Functions of Referee.
The Referee is sole timekeeper and judge of fact.
He is sole judge of Law, subject to a right of appeal to this Union.
He is not entitled to contract out of the Laws of the Game by agreeing with both teams to vary or not to recognise any Law.
He must not give any instructions or directions to either team prior to a match.
He may, before arriving at a decision, consult the Touch Judges or either of them on any point of fact material to their functions, or with regard to time in the case of failure of his watch.
He may not consult with any one else except with regard to time, and then only if the information supplied by the Touch Judges is insufficient.
He may allow extra time for delays.
He has power to stop a match before time has expired if, in his opinion, the full time cannot be played.
In the case of his being unable to officiate during the whole period of a match, he shall have power to appoint a substitute to take his place, failing an agreement by the captains of the respective teams.
He cannot alter any decision when given.
It rests with him to impose penalties for irregularities, and to give all necessary directions within the Laws. He has full power to decide if any parts of a player’s dress, including boots and projections thereon, are dangerous, and in that case must order such player to remove the same and not allow him to take further part in the match until after such removal.
He must not allow anyone but the players on to the playing enclosure during a match, except with his permission.
He must not allow any player to leave the playing enclosure without his permission, which should only be granted in special circumstances.
Note:—Any player who, through injury or any other cause, has to retire during a match, shall not resume playing in that match until he has obtained the permission of the Referee.
The Referee must carry a whistle. The whistle when blown stops the match for the time being. The Referee shall blow it only to indicate:—
(a) A Fair-catch (even though he has blown for a knock-on or throw-forward).
(b) Player hurt (as soon afterwards as the ball has become dead and subject to resumption of play in not more than three minutes).
(c) Danger, when continuation of play would be dangerous.
Note:—If the tackled player played in the proper spirit and at once fairly released the ball, very few cases of danger could arise, but by holding on for a short time danger may arise. In such cases a Referee should award a penalty.
(d) That the ball or player carrying it has touched him.
(e) Half-time or No-side, as soon as the ball has become dead, except as the result of a try, a penalty kick, or a free kick, when in each case he shall allow play to proceed until the ball next becomes dead.
(f) A goal.
(g) That the ball has gone into touch-in-goal.
(h) A breach of Law, or irregularity of play, unless the non-offending team gain an advantage.
(i) That he is awarding a penalty.
(j) Foul play or misconduct.
(k) That a stoppage is necessary for any other reason.
The Referee shall not blow his whistle:—
(l) Simply because a player is tackled.
(m) When an irregularity occurs from which the non-offending team gains an advantage. (Subject to Laws 21, 22, 23, 24 and 27).
Note:—A Referee should see that an advantage (generally meaning “territorial advantage”) is actually gained by the non-offending team, failing which, he should whistle for the offence. An opportunity of gaining an advantage is not sufficient.
In case of any dispute relative to a try or a kick at goal where it is possible that an appeal may be made to this Union, the Referee shall allow the kick at goal, so that if the kick is successful, and the Union supports the appeal, the goal points may be added.

LAW 11. Functions of Touch Judges.
Each Touch Judge must carry a flag and remain in touch, one on each side of the ground, except when a kick at goal from a try, free kick or penalty kick is being taken, when both must assist the Referee by standing, one at or behind each of the goal posts of the defending team and signalling by raising his flag to indicate that the ball has gone over the cross-bar.
The Touch Judge must hold up his flag when and where the ball or the player carrying it has gone into touch, and indicate which team is entitled to bring the ball into play.
He must lower his flag immediately the ball has been thrown in by a player of the team entitled to do so, but if the ball is otherwise thrown in, or if the player throwing in the ball put either foot into the field of play, he must keep his flag raised, and the ball shall be thrown in again.
He must signal when the ball, or the player carrying it, has gone into Touch-in-goal.
Any decision of a Touch Judge may be over-ruled by the Referee.
A Touch Judge is under the control of the Referee, who has power to deal with him as a player under Law 34 (b).

Part III.—The play in detail.

LAW 12. Number of Players.
A match shall be played by not more than fifteen players in each team. Any objection by either team in connection with this Law may be made at any time, but it shall not affect any score previously obtained.

LAW 13. Mode of play. 
A match is started by a kick-off, after which any player who is on-side may, at any time, kick, pick up, or run with the ball, or tackle an opponent holding the ball, except as provided for in Laws 15 and 16.
The ball may be passed or knocked from one player to another provided it is not passed, knocked or thrown forward by hand or arm.

LAW 14. Knock-on or throw-forward. 
A throw-in from touch is not a throw-forward; a rebound is not a knock-on.
If the ball is passed back, but, after alighting on the ground behind the place from which it was passed, it bounce forward, the pass is in order.
In the case of a throw-forward or a knock-on the ball shall be brought back to the place of infringement and a scrummage formed there, unless:—
(a) A Fair-catch has been allowed.
(b) the opposing team gain an advantage.
(c) in the opinion of the Referee such throw-forward or knock-on is wilful, when he shall award a penalty kick at the place of infringement.

LAW 15. Scrummage
When a scrummage is ordered or taken—
(a) The Referee shall award to the team not responsible for the stoppage of play the right of putting in the ball. If in doubt he shall award the right to the team in whose half of the ground the scrummage is to be formed.
(b) The Referee may order the ball to be put in on either side.
(c) For an infringement between the 25 yards lines and within 10 yards of the touch line, the scrummage shall take place 10 yards from the touch line on a line parallel to the goal lines through the place where the infringement occurred.
(d) It is illegal for more than three players to form either front row of the scrummage before the ball has been put in. Referees shall not inflict a penalty for a breach of this Law unless such breach is wilful or persistent, in which case it must be dealt with under Law 34 (c).
(e) It is illegal, after the scrummage has been formed, for any player to add himself to the front row before the ball has been put in.
Note:—Referees should stop the dangerous practice of players forming down some distance apart and rushing together, and deal with it under Law 34 (a) (5).
(f) The ball shall be put in without delay.
Note:—Any delay caused by a player with the ball waiting for any of his team to join the scrummage must be treated as wilful waste of time.
(g) The player putting in the ball shall stand not less than three feet from the scrummage and with both hands below the knee shall put the ball fairly in at moderate speed so that it first touches the ground beyond one foot of the nearest player of each front row.
(h) The ball is fairly in when it has been put in along a line midway between and parallel to the lines of feet of the players forming each front row of the scrummage and has touched the ground.
(i) The ball is not fairly in if it enters and comes out at either side between the lines of feet of the players forming each front row or between the feet of either of the outside players of each front row on the side on which the ball has been put in.
(j) It is illegal for any player in either front row of the scrummage to raise or advance his foot until the ball is fairly in.
(k) It is illegal for any player to prevent the ball from getting fairly into the scrummage.
In any scrummage—
(1) It is illegal for any player to return the ball into the scrummage by hand or foot after it has come out.
(2) It is illegal for any player to handle the ball, pick it up by hands or legs, or intentionally fall or kneel while the ball is in the scrummage, except as provided for in Law 26 (b).
(3) It is illegal for any player lying on the ground to interfere with the ball in any way.
Penalty:—In the event of the infringement of any one of (e), (f), (g), (i), (j), (k), (1), (2) or (3) a penalty kick shall be awarded at that place.

LAW 16. Tackle.
(a) After a tackle the ball must be brought into play with a foot.
(b) When a player is tackled but not brought to the ground, he must immediately release the ball so that it falls to the ground between himself and his opponents’ goal line.
(c) The tackled player, if lying on the ground, must immediately release the ball, roll away from it, and get up before playing it with his foot.
(d) No player shall prevent a tackled player from releasing the ball, or getting up after he has released it.
(e) No player shall pick up the ball, after a tackled player has released it, or when it is on the ground after a player has been tackled, until it has been played with a foot.
(f) No player lying on the ground after a tackle shall interfere with the ball in any way until it has been played with the foot of a player who is not lying on the ground.
Penalty:—Penalty kick awarded at the place of infringement.
If a player carrying the ball is thrown or knocked over, but not tackled, he may nevertheless pass the ball or get up and continue his run, even though the ball has touched the ground.

LAW 17. Lying on the ball. 
A player lying on the ground with the ball in his possession must immediately play the ball, or get up, or roll away from the ball.
Penalty:—Penalty kick awarded at the place of infringement.

LAW 18. Off-side. 
A player is off-side—
(a) If he enter a scrummage from his opponents’ side.
(b) If while the ball is in a scrummage he, not being in the scrummage, remain with either foot in front of the ball.
(c) If at a throw in from touch, before the ball is played, he stand or move in front of a line at right angles to the touch lines through the place where the ball went into touch.
Note:—This law merely applies to the case of a player who is participating in the line-out. It is not intended that a player before throwing in the ball from touch should be obliged to wait until the players of his own team have returned to or behind the line-out.
Penalty:—Penalty kick awarded at the place of infringement.
(d) If, in his own In-goal, he is in front of one of his own team who is taking a free kick or penalty kick from behind the goal line. Otherwise a player cannot be off-side in his own In-goal.
Penalty:—Scrummage five yards from the goal line opposite the mark.
(e) If the ball has been kicked or touched or is being carried by one of his own team behind him.
No off-side player shall play the ball or in any way obstruct an opponent, or approach or wilfully remain within 10 yards of an opponent waiting for the ball.
Penalty:—Penalty kick awarded at the place of infringement, or scrummage where the ball was last played by the offending team, at the option of the other team.
If the ball were last played in In-goal, the scrummage shall be awarded five yards from the goal line on a line through the place parallel to the touch lines.
No player shall shout “all on-side” or words to that effect when any member of his team is off-side.
Penalty:—Penalty kick awarded at the place where the shout was given or scrummage where the ball was last played by the offending team, at the option of the other team.
If the shout were given from in touch, the kick shall be awarded 10 yards from the touch line, on a line through the place parallel to the goal lines.
If the ball or a player carrying it touch a player who is accidentally off-side, the Referee shall order a scrummage at the place where such off-side occurred.

LAW 19. On-side. 
An “off-side” player becomes “on-side”—
(a) When an opponent carrying the ball has run five yards.
(b) When the ball has been kicked by an opponent.
(c) When an opponent has intentionally touched the ball, provided such opponent does not catch or gather it.
(d) When one of his own team has run in front of him either carrying the ball or after having kicked the ball when behind him. Such kicker must be in the field-of-play to put the off-side player on-side, though he is not debarred from previously following up in touch.

LAW 20. Charging and Obstruction.
(a) No player running for the ball shall charge an opponent also running for the ball, except shoulder to shoulder. A player who is not running for the ball must not charge or obstruct an opponent not holding the ball.
(b) A player overtaking an opponent also running for the ball must not push him from behind.
(c) No player shall hold an opponent who is not carrying the ball.
Note:—Pulling any part of the clothing of an opponent should be dealt with as holding under this Law and under Law 34 (a) (2).
(d) No player shall charge, push, or hold an opponent at the line-out on the ball being thrown in from touch.
(e) No player with the ball in his possession after it has come out from a scrummage shall attempt to force his way through his own forwards.
Penalty:—Penalty kick awarded at the place of infringement.
(f) A player not himself running for the ball must not wilfully charge or obstruct an opponent who has just kicked the ball.
Penalty:—The opposing team shall be awarded at their option a penalty kick at the place of infringement, or at the place where the ball alights.
If the ball alights in touch the mark shall be at a place ten yards from the touch line on a line parallel to the goal lines through the place where it crossed the touch line.
If the ball alights in touch-in-goal the mark shall be at a place ten yards from the touch line and five yards from the goal line.
If the ball alights in in-goal or over the dead-ball line the mark shall be at a place five yards from the goal line on a line parallel to the touch lines through the place where it crossed the goal line.

LAW 21. Kick-off.
(a) A place kick from the centre of the half-way line or after an unconverted try a drop kick at or from behind the centre of the half-way line must be taken; otherwise the ball shall be kicked off again.
(b) The ball must reach the 10 yards line, unless first played by an opponent, otherwise it shall be kicked off again or a scrummage formed at the centre, at the opponents’ option. If it reach the 10 yards line and is then blown back, play shall continue.
(c) The kicker’s team must all be behind the ball; otherwise a scrummage shall be formed at the centre.
(d) The opposing team must not stand within ten yards of the half-way line; otherwise the ball shall be kicked off again.
(e) The opposing team must not charge until the ball has been kicked; otherwise the ball shall be kicked off again.
(f) If the ball pitch in touch, the opposing team may accept the kick, have the ball kicked off again, or have a scrummage formed at the centre.
Law 10 (m) as to advantage does not apply in the event of any of the foregoing not being complied with.

LAW 22. Drop-out.
(a) A drop kick must be taken from within the 25 yards line; otherwise the ball shall be dropped out again.
(b) The opposing team must not charge over the 25 yards line; otherwise the ball shall be dropped out again.
(c) The ball must reach the 25 yards line; otherwise the opposing team may have it dropped out again or have a scrummage formed at the centre of the 25 yards line. If it reach the 25 yards line and is then blown back, play shall continue.
(d) If the ball pitch in touch, the opposing team may accept the kick, have the ball dropped out again, or have a scrummage formed at the centre of the 25 yards line.
(e) All the kicker’s team must be behind the ball when kicked; otherwise the Referee shall order a scrummage at the centre of the 25 yards line.
Law 10 (m) as to advantage does not apply in the event of any of the foregoing not being complied with.

LAW 23. Free Kick.
(a) A free kick must be taken at or behind the mark, on a line through the mark parallel to the touch lines; the kick must be taken by the player making the Fair-catch and the ball must reach a line through the mark parallel to the goal lines, unless first played by an opponent.
(b) In the case of a place kick, the ball must not be handled by the kicker after it has been placed on the ground.
(c) In every case the kicker’s team, other than the placer for a place kick, must be behind the ball when the kick is taken, and may follow up. The opposing team may come up to, but not beyond, a line through the mark parallel to the goal lines, and may charge subject to the following conditions:—
(1) In the case of a place kick, as soon as the ball has been placed on the ground.
(2) In the case of a drop kick or punt, as soon as the kicker begins his run or offers to kick, provided that if he then draws back with the ball still in his hands, they retire to the line of the mark.
Any gradual creeping up beyond the mark shall be considered as a charge.
Penalty:—
(i) For infringements by the kicker’s team—a scrummage at the mark. (Subject to Law 18 (d)).
(ii) For infringements by the opposing team—charge disallowed; if the kick has been taken, the kicker shall be allowed the option of another kick under the original conditions without the charge.
If the kick is taken from behind a goal line the ball must cross that line, unless first played by an opponent; otherwise the kick must be retaken.
Law 10 (m) as to advantage does not apply in the event of any of the foregoing not being complied with.
Note:—If a player who has made a fair catch is injured in so doing and is unable to take the kick within three minutes, the kick is void, and a scrummage shall be formed at the mark.
If the mark be in In-goal, the scrummage shall be awarded five yards from the goal line on a line through the mark parallel to the touch lines.

LAW 24. Penalty Kick.
(a) A penalty kick must be taken at or behind the mark, on a line through the mark parallel to the touch lines. The kick may be taken by any player of the team, and for a place kick the kicker may place the ball.
(b) In every case the kicker’s team, other than the placer for a place kick, must be behind the ball until the kick has been taken.
(c) All players of the opposing team must retire to or behind a line parallel to the goal lines and ten yards from the mark, or to their own goal line, whichever is nearer to the mark, and the ball must reach this line unless first played by an opponent.
If the mark is in In-goal the line shall be the goal line.
(d) All players of the opposing team must remain motionless with their hands by their sides until the ball has been kicked.
Penalty:—
(1) For infringements by the kicker’s team—a scrummage at the mark.
If the mark is in In-goal, the scrummage shall be awarded five yards from the goal line on a line through the mark parallel to the touch lines.
(2) For infringements by the opposing team—if the kick has been taken, the kicker shall have the option of another kick under the original conditions.
Law 10 (m) as to advantage does not apply in the event of any of the foregoing not being complied with.
A scrummage may be taken at the mark by the non-offending team in lieu of a penalty kick.

LAW 25. Place Kick at Goal after a try.
(a) The ball must be brought into the field-of-play, and be placed on the ground on a line parallel to the touch lines through the place where the try was obtained. Any player of the team may take the kick, but the ball must not be handled by the kicker after it has been placed on the ground.
(b) All the kicker’s team, other than the placer, must be behind the ball when kicked.
(c) The opposing team must be behind the goal line until the ball has been placed on the ground for the kick, when they may charge or jump with a view to touching the ball.
Penalty:—
(i) For infringements by the kicker’s team—the kick shall be disallowed.
(ii) For infringements by the opposing team—the charge shall be disallowed; if the kick has been taken the kicker shall be allowed the option of another kick under the original conditions without the charge.
Under Laws 23 and 25:—
When a player is placing the ball neither he nor the kicker shall wilfully do anything which may lead their opponents to charge before the ball has been placed on the ground; in the event of either doing so, the charge shall not be disallowed.

LAW 26. Try. 
A try is scored in the following cases:—
(a) If a player pass, knock, or kick the ball into his own In-goal and an opponent first ground it.
(b) If a team in a scrummage push the other team over the latter’s goal line and first ground the ball in In-goal. If the defending team ground it, a Touch-down shall be awarded.
(c) If a player ground the ball in his opponents’ In-goal and pick it up again, a try shall be awarded where it was first grounded.
The Referee shall award a try if, in his opinion, one would undoubtedly have been obtained but for the unfair play or unlawful interference of the defending team. Such try shall be awarded between the posts.
A try may be scored by a player who is in touch or in touch-in-goal provided he is not carrying the ball.
The Referee shall allow a touch-down when he is unable to decide which team first grounded the ball in In-goal.

LAW 27. Touch. 
The ball is in touch:—
(a) When, not being in the possession of a player, it touches or crosses a touch line.
If the ball cross a touch line and is then blown back, it is in touch at the place where it first crossed the line.
(b) When the ball in a player’s possession or a player carrying it touches a touch line or the ground beyond it.
A player may be in touch and yet play the ball with his foot if the ball is not in touch.
The ball must be brought into play by an opponent of the player whom it last touched in the field-of-play, unless such player carrying the ball is physically forced into touch by an opponent, in which case it shall be brought into play by the player so forced or by one of his team.
A player throwing the ball in from touch must have both feet in touch; otherwise the ball shall be thrown in again.
The ball must be brought into play at the place where it went into touch by one of the following methods:—
(1) Throwing it into the field of play so as to alight at least five yards from and at right angles to the touch line, or
(2) Forming a scrummage ten yards from the place where it went into touch, at right angles to the touch lines.
If the ball when thrown in from touch does not alight as in (1), the opposing team shall bring the ball into play as in (2).
Law 10 (m) as to advantage does not apply in the event of (1) not being complied with.
Note:—When a penalty kick is awarded for infringements in throwing the ball in from touch, re Law 35, the mark for such kick shall be ten yards from the touch line on a line through the place of infringement at right angles to the touch lines.

LAW 28. Wilful throwing, etc., in touch, etc. 
If a player wilfully knock or throw the ball from the field of play into touch, touch-in-goal, or over his own dead-ball line, the opposing team shall be awarded a penalty kick at the place where such knock or throw occurred.

LAW 29. Touch-in-goal. 
The ball is in Touch-in-goal:—
(a) When, not being in possession of a player, it touches a corner post, or touches or crosses a Touch-in-goal line.
(b) When the ball in a player’s possession, or a player carrying it touches a corner post or touches a Touch-in-goal line or the ground beyond it.
The flag shall not be regarded as part of the corner post.

LAW 30. Ball, etc., touching Referee. 
If the ball or a player carrying it touch the Referee in the field-of-play a scrummage shall be ordered at that place.
If the ball in a player’s possession, or a player carrying it touches the Referee in that player’s In-goal, a Touch-down shall be awarded; and if the ball, while in play in In-goal at either end, but not held by a player, touch the Referee, a Touch Judge, or a spectator, a Touch-down shall be awarded, provided that a Touch-down would otherwise have been obtained, or the ball would have gone dead; and if the issue is in doubt when the ball touches a spectator, a Touch-down shall be awarded the visiting team, provided they are the defending team.
If a player cross his opponents’ goal line with the ball in his possession and, before grounding it, touch the Referee, a try shall be awarded at that place.If the ball while in play in In-goal at either end, but not held by a player, touch the Referee, a Touch Judge, or spectator, a try shall be awarded at that place, provided an attacking player would otherwise have scored it; and if the issue is in doubt when the ball touches a spectator, a try shall be awarded at that place to the visiting team, provided they are the attacking team.

LAW 31. Ball held in In-goal. 
If the ball while in the possession of a player in In-goal is fairly held by an opposing player before it is grounded, a scrummage shall be formed five yards from the goal line opposite the place where it was held.

LAW 32. Taking ball over own goal line. 
If a defending player wilfully kick, pass, knock, or carry the ball back over his own goal line, and it is there made dead, except in the case where a try is obtained, or as provided for in Law 28, the ball shall be brought back and a scrummage formed at the place from which it was kicked, passed, knocked or carried back. This Law covers heeling back or an intentional fumble whereby the ball goes into a player’s own In-goal, provided it is made dead in each case.

LAW 33. Infringements in In-goal, etc. 
The Referee must disallow a try and award a Touch-down if in his opinion a try would undoubtedly not have been gained but for unfair play or unlawful interference on the part of the attacking team.

For infringements in In-goal not provided for, the penalty shall be:—
(a) For an offence by the attacking team—a Touch-down.
(b) For an offence by the defending team—a scrummage five yards from the goal line opposite the place of infringement.

LAW 34. Foul play, Misconduct. 
The following are prohibited:—
(a) Foul play, including—
(1) wilful hacking, tripping, or striking.
(2) wilfully holding a player not in possession of the ball.
(3) illegal tackling, pushing, charging or obstructing.
(b) Misconduct.

Penalty:—For (a) and (b):—The Referee shall award a penalty kick at the place of infringement (subject to Law 20 (f)), and on the first offence shall either caution the player or order him off the playing enclosure. For the second offence he must order him off.

Note:—The attention of Referees is drawn to this Law covering “obstruction” or “interference,” which must be very sharply dealt with, as there is a tendency amongst players to risk a penalty kick in order to gain or save a try by unfair play.

(c) Persistent infringement of the Laws.
Penalty:—The Referee must order the player off the playing enclosure.

If ordered off, the player shall take no further part in the match in progress, and must be reported to this Union by the Referee. In International matches the report is to be made to the International Board.

LAW 35. Waste of time. 
Waste of time caused intentionally by any player, or by a team, including the wilful infringement of any Law or Laws for which the penalty is only a scrummage, is illegal.

Penalty:—Penalty kick awarded at the place of infringement.
Persistent infringements must be dealt with under Law 34 (c).

LAW 36. Irregularities not provided for. 
When a Law is broken or any irregularity of play not otherwise provided for occurs, and an advantage is gained therefrom by the opposing team, the Referee shall not blow his whistle but shall allow the game to continue; but if no advantage is gained by such team and if no other procedure is provided, the ball shall be taken back to the place where the breach of the Law or irregularity occurred and a scrummage formed there.



NOTES FOR THE GUIDANCE OF REFEREES.

LAW 1. Field-of-Play.
The Referee should satisfy himself that the ground is properly marked out and that there are only such flags as are shown upon the plan.

As the goal posts and goal lines are in In-goal, a Try or Touch-down can be obtained on the goal-line or if the ball be in contact with the ground and a goal post.

LAW 2. Knock-on.
It is not necessary for a player to “propel” the ball in order to constitute a Knock-on; if the ball strike his hand or arm and travel in the direction of his opponents’ dead ball line, it is a Knock-on.

A mis-field is not a Knock-on unless the ball travel direct from a player’s hand or arm in the direction of his opponents’ dead ball line.

LAW 2. Fair Catch.
It is not necessary for a player to be standing, or facing his opponents’ dead ball line when making a fair catch, or to remain stationary after making his mark, but a mark must definitely be made simultaneously with the catch.

LAW 2. Tackle.
Referees should note the addition to this Law.

LAW 2. Goal.
Referees should note that a goal is scored if the ball has crossed the bar after it has been illegally touched by a player of the opposing team; and that a goal should be awarded if in his opinion one would undoubtedly have been obtained except for the ball being illegally touched by a player of the opposing team.

LAW 10. Functions of Referee.
When a Referee awards a penalty kick or when a free kick or kick at goal after a try is being taken, he should make an impression with his heel to indicate the line of the mark and then, in the case of a penalty kick, mark the line where opponents are to stand.

If a Referee award a try, not having noticed that the flag was up for “touch,” the law regarding “altering his decision” does not apply, as the ball having previously gone into touch, was out of play, and anything which happened afterwards had no bearing on the game. This does not affect the right of the Referee to overrule the Touch Judge’s decision if, in his opinion, the ball or player carrying it, had not been in touch.

Stoppages for injuries must not exceed three minutes; a broken or untied bootlace is not sufficient reason for stopping play.

A player ordered off should be reported to the Constituent Body in whose area his club is situated, and not direct to the Rugby Football Union. A member of a Referees’ Society should send his report through the Hon. Secretary of his Society.

LAW 15. Referees should note that sections (a) to (f) refer to set scrummages only and (g) to (j) to both set and loose scrummages.

LAW 10 (e). If while the Referee is waiting for the ball to become dead to blow his whistle for half time or no-side, a player is tackled, the whistle should at once be blown and half-time or no-side called as the ball has become dead by the tackle.

LAW 11. Functions of Touch Judges.
The Touch Judge is responsible for seeing that a player of the proper team throws the ball in and that he has both feet in touch, but has no right to keep his flag up if the ball is thrown in from the wrong place.

If during play it is noticed that a touch judge has his flag up and the Referee is not aware of the reason, the game should continue until the ball becomes dead; the Referee should then ascertain from the touch judge why he has his flag up. Unless it is for something for which he is entitled to raise it, the game should be restarted from where the ball became dead.

LAW 15. Scrummage.
When a scrummage is ordered one team is not entitled to gain ground at the expense of the other before the ball is available to restart the game. If it do so, the scrummage should be brought back to the original place.

The scrummage shall be as square as possible with the field of play.

If an infringement for which the correct decision is a scrummage take place so near the goal line that it is impossible for all the players in the scrummage to be in the field of play, the scrummage should nevertheless be awarded at the place where the infringement occurred.

LAW 15 (a).
The intention of section (a) of this Law is that the team not responsible for the stoppage of the game should have the advantage in the ensuing scrummage of being allowed to choose the side of the scrummage on which the ball shall be put in. Consequently the Referee should only exercise his right in exceptional circumstances.

A player having chosen the side on which he wishes to put the ball in cannot alter his decision.

LAW 15 (c).
The Referee must insist on the scrummage being formed 10 yards from the touch line but he has no power under this section to order a ten yard scrummage between a 25 yards line and a goal line.

LAW 15 (g). Putting the ball in the scrummage.
Referees must insist that:
(a) The player putting in the ball stands not less than three feet from the scrummage.
(b) The ball is propelled by both hands from below the knee.
(c) The ball must pitch on the ground beyond one foot of the nearest player of each front row.
(d) Until the ball has touched the ground no player may raise or advance his foot to reach it.

INTENTION OF LAW 15 (g).
As soon as the ball has passed one foot of a player of each team and has touched the ground, any foot may be moved to reach the ball.

LAW 15 (i).
A forward who returns the ball into the scrummage after it has been heeled out should be penalised for “wilfully returning.”

It is illegal for an outside player in a scrummage to move outwards when the ball has been obtained by his team and is emerging from the back of the scrummage, thereby preventing an opponent from getting round the scrummage. This amounts to obstruction, even if he maintain contact with the scrummage.

LAW 16. Tackle.
It is left entirely to the Referee to decide whether a player is tackled as defined in Law 2.

Should the Referee decide that a tackle has occurred he must insist on the ball being released immediately, and struggling should be stopped by one of the following methods:—
(1) Award a penalty kick if able to judge which team is responsible.
(2) Award a scrummage if unable to do so.

Sub-sections (b) and (c) make a distinction between the tackled player being on his feet and being brought to the ground, and in each case the word “release” is used instead of “put down.”

A player lying on the ground may, except in a scrummage or after a tackle, reach out and get possession of the ball, or pass or kick the ball without getting up.

LAW 17. Lying on the ball.
A player on both knees, in possession of the ball, may go forward whilst in that position, provided he has not been tackled.

LAW 18. Off-Side.
LAW 19. On-Side.
A player is off-side because he is in front of the man of his own team who was the last to play the ball. He is not off-side because he is in front of the ball, except when the ball is in the scrummage.

A penalty kick should not be given against a player for off-side unless he:
(1) Enter the scrummage from his opponents’ side.
(2) Remain in front of the ball with either foot whilst it is in the scrummage, not himself being in the scrummage.
Note:—A Referee should not penalise a player who overruns the ball when it is in the scrummage if he immediately tries to get back behind the ball.
(3) Stand in front of a line-out.
(4) Play the ball or interfere with an opponent.
(5) Wilfully approach or remain within ten yards of an opponent waiting to receive the ball.

If a player be on-side when an opponent plays the ball, he can only be put off-side by one of his own team behind him playing the ball.

An off-side player may approach an opponent waiting for the ball up to a distance of 10 yards from him.

The Referee should whistle at once if an off-side player, following up a kick, charge within 10 yards of an opponent waiting to receive the ball. Delay may prove dangerous to the latter player.

If a player carrying the ball run into an off-side player of his own team, a scrummage should be awarded for unintentional off-side, but if the Referee be of opinion that it was intentional he should award a penalty kick on the ground of “obstruction.”

If the ball, after being kicked, accidentally touch an opponent, off-side players of the kicker’s team are not thereby put on-side.

If, on the contrary, a player attempt to charge down a kick and the ball touch any part of his body, off-side players of the opposing team are put on-side.

LAW 19. On-side.
An off-side player can place himself on-side by moving behind the player of his own team who has the ball, or who last played it.

LAW 20. Charging and Obstruction.
An off-side player wilfully running or standing in front of another of his team who is in possession of the ball, thereby preventing an opponent from reaching the latter player, should be penalised for obstruction. Similarly a penalty kick for obstruction should be given if a player with the ball shield himself behind one of his own team.

It is illegal for an outside player in a scrummage to move outwards when the ball has been obtained by his team and is emerging from the back of the scrummage, thereby preventing an opponent from getting round the scrummage. This amounts to obstruction even if he maintain contact with the scrummage.

Referees should note that no player is allowed to push an opponent from behind in any circumstances unless the latter is carrying the ball.

Law 20 (b) is applicable in In-goal as well as in the field-of-play.

LAW 21. Kick-off.
In the case of a drop-kick, if the kicker cross the line the kick must be retaken.

LAW 23. Free Kick.
If the charge be disallowed or a second kick awarded, the kicker may alter the type of kick.

If a Referee blow his whistle when a fair catch has been made, a free kick must be taken, even if the mark be in In-goal unless an opponent unfairly charge the catcher, in which case a penalty kick may be substituted.

LAW 23. Free Kick.
LAW 24. Penalty Kick.
In the case of a kick being taken from behind a goal-line, the ball is in play if an opponent legitimately play it before it crosses the goal line, and a try may be scored.

LAW 23. Free Kick.
LAW 25. Place kick at Goal after a try.
If a player in taking a place kick at goal kick the ball from the placer's hands without the ball being on the ground, the kick is void, and no second kick is allowed.

If an intending kicker handle the ball after it has been placed on the ground for a kick at goal the Referee should disallow the kick even though “no charge” has been given.

If the Referee whistle for no-charge as the kick is in the act of being taken, and a goal result, it should stand, but if not, the kicker should have another kick under the original conditions without the charge.

The Referee should see that the opposing players do not gradually creep up, and that they have both feet behind the mark or goal line, otherwise he should disallow the charge.

Shouting by the defending team during a kick at goal should be treated as “misconduct,” and if no goal be scored another kick should be allowed without the charge.

LAW 24. Penalty Kick.
If a second kick be allowed on account of an infringement by the opposing team, the same player must take the kick, but it need not be the same type of kick as taken in the first instance.

All players of the opposing team must remain passive from the time the kicker commences his run until the kick has been taken.

(c) The Referee must first mark the place where the penalty is awarded, and then the distance of ten yards to which the offending team must retire.

LAW 26. Try.
Referees should note that any penalty try must now be awarded between the posts.

LAW 27. Touch.
If in the opinion of the Referee a player purposely throw in “not straight” from touch, a penalty kick should be awarded, and should the player afterwards persist, he must be dealt with under Law 34 (c).

If the ball fail to reach five yards the procedure is the same as when it is thrown “not straight.”

A player may run up from behind the line-out and take the ball from the throw-in if there be a gap, but should he run into an opponent whilst doing so, a penalty kick for charging must be awarded.

LAW 32. Taking ball over own goal line.
Note: This law only applies when there is some deliberate action by a player to kick, pass, knock or carry the ball back over his own goal line.

The scrummage must be awarded at the place whence the ball was kicked, passed, knocked or carried back, whatever the distance from the goal line.

LAW 33. Infringements in In-goal, etc.
If a player knock-on or throw-forward in his own In-goal, a scrummage five yards in the field of play must be ordered unless a try be scored.

If he knock-on or throw-forward in his opponents’ In-goal, a drop-out must be ordered.