T7
The
LAWS OF THE GAME
OF FOOTBALL
as played by
The Rugby Football Union
Season 1929-30.
THE PLAN, including all words and figures thereon, is to take effect as
^art-?|f,e TERMS appearing on the Plan are to bear their apparent meaning.
and to he deemed part of the definitions as tf separately mcluded.
LAW 1. Plan of the Field.
Notes : ■ indicates Post with Flag.
Length and breadth of Field to be as near to dimensions indicated as possible.
--------These broken lines indicate 5 yards distance from the Touch Line.
Goal dimensions.—10 feet is taken from the ground to the top edge of the Crossbar, and
18 ft. Gin from inside to inside of the goal posts.
20
<part j--Definitions, and Glossary
of Terms.
LAW 2. The following terms have the meaning
assigned to them, that is to say .
“ Beyond " or44 Behind or *4 In front of
any position indicated implies “with both
feet ’’ except when unsuited to the context.
Dead means that the ball is for the time
being out of play, an event that occurs when
the Referee’s whistle is blown, or as under
After a tackle, after a touch-down, after a
try has been scored, after an unsuccessful
attempt to convert a try or after a goal has
been kicked.
When the ball or a player carrying it touches
or crosses a touch line, touch-in-goal line or
dead ball line.
When the ball or a player carrying it touches
the Referee.
Fair-catch is a catch made direct from a
kick, knock-on or throw forward by one of the
opposing side. The catcher must immediately
claim the same by making a mark with his
21
heel at the spot where he made the catch.
A fair catch can be made in a player’s own
In-goal.
Field-of-play. The field-of-play is the space
as shewn on the plan, bounded by, but not
including, the Goal Lines and Touch Lines.
Goal. A goal is obtained by kicking fthe
ball over the opponents’ cross bar, from the
field-of-play by any place kick or drop kick
except a kick-off or drop-out, without touching
the ground or any player of either side. A
goal is scored if the ball has crossed the bar,
even though it may have been blown back
afterwards, and whether it has touched the
cross bar or either goal post or not.
Kicks.—
Kick. A kick is made by propelling the
ball with the foot, knee or lower part of the
leg.
Drop Kick. A drop kick is made by a
player in possession of the ball letting it fall
from the hand or hands to the ground and
kicking it at the first rebound as it rises.
Place Kick. A place kick is made by
kicking the ball after it has been placed on
the ground for that purpose.
Punt. A punt is made by a player in
possession of the ball letting it fall from the
hand or hands and kicking it before it
touches the ground.
Drop-out. A drop-out is a drop kick
taken by the defending side after a touch-
down or after the ball has been in touch-
in-goal or has touched or crossed the dead
ball line.
Free Kick. A free kick is a kick allowed
for a fair-catch. It may be taken by a
place kick, drop kick or punt.
Kick-off. Kick-off is a place kick from
the centre of the half-way line, taken at
the beginning of the game or on the
resumption of play after the half-time
interval, or after a goal or unconverted
try.
Penalty Kick. A penalty kick is a
kick awarded to the non-offending side by
reason of an infringement of the laws by
their opponents. It may be taken by a
place kick, drop kick or punt.
Knock-on or Throw-forward is the pro-
pulsion of the ball by hand or arm of a player
in the direction of his opponents’ dead ball
line.
23
Mark. The mark is the spot at which a
free kick or penalty kick is awarded.
No-side. The end of the game.
Off-Side denotes that a player is in such a
position that he is out of the game, and that
it is illegal for him to play the ball or interfere
with an opponent. (See Law 17).
On-Side denotes that a player is in the game
and not off-side.
Scrummage. A scrummage, which can
only take place in the field of play, is formed
by one or more players from each side closing
round the ball when it is on the ground, or
by their closing up in readiness to allow the
ball to be put on the ground between them.
Tackle. A tackle occurs when the holder of
the ball in the field-of-play is held by one or
more players of the opposing side so that whilst
he is so held there is a moment when he
cannot pass or play the ball.
Touch-down. A touch-down is obtained by
the act of a defending player who puts his
hand on the ball on the ground in his own
In-goal.
Try. A try is obtained by the act of an
attacking player who first puts his hand on the
ball on the ground in his opponents’ In-goal.
25
LAW 5. Players' Dress.
A player may not wear dangerous pro-
jections—buckles, rings, etc. Any studs on
his boots must be of leather, circular, fastened
by at least three nails and of the following
dimensions, namely :—
Maximum length (measured from
sole) _____________________Jin.
Minimum diameter at base .. Jin.
,, „ at top .. jin.
LAW 6. Appointment of Referee and Touch
Judges.
In all matches a Referee and two Touch
Judges must be appointed or mutually agreed
upon.
LAW 7. Method of Scoring.
A try
A goal from a try (in which case
the try shall not count) ..
A goal from a free kick or penalty
kick ..
A dropped goal otherwise
obtained
3 points
5 „
3 „
4 „
. 24
Part II.—Preliininary.
LAW 3. Ground.
All lines shewn on the plan must be suitably
marked out. The touch lines and the air
space above are in touch. The goal lines are
in In-goal. The Touch-in-goal lines, corner
posts and the air space above the Touch-in-goal
lines are in Touch-in-goal. The goal posts are
to be erected in the goal lines.
Any objection by the visiting side arising
in connection with the subject matter of
Laws 1 and 3 must be made before the first
kick-off.
LAW 4. Ball.
The ball shall be oval in shape and of the
following description, so far as possible :—
Length in line .. .. 11 to lljins.
Circumference (end on) 30 to 31ins.
„ (in width) 25 J to 26ins.
Weight_______________13 to 14lozs.
Handsewn with at least eight stitches to
the inch.
26
LAW 8. Time, etc.
In International matches two periods of
40 minutes each shall be played ; in other
matches the duration of play shall be agreed
upon by the respective sides, or if not agreed
shall be fixed by the Referee, exclusive of an
interval at half-time of not more than five
minutes, and of any other permitted delay,
which shall in no case exceed three minutes.
Play shall be divided into halves. At half-
time the sides shall change over.
LAW 9. Before the game begins the captains
shall toss for the right to kick-off or the
choice of ends.
LAW 10. Functions of Referee.
The Referee is sole timekeeper and judge of
fact.
He is sole judge of Law, subject to a right
of appeal to this Union
He may, before arriving at a decision, con-
sult the Touch Judges or either of them on
any point of fact material to their functions,
or with regard to time in the case of failure
of his watch.
He may not consult with any one else except
with regard to time, and then only if the
information supplied by the Touch Judges
be insufficient.
He may allow extra time for delays.
He has power to stop the game before time
has expired if, in his opinion, the full time
cannot be played.
In the case of his being unable to officiate
during the whole period of the game, he shall
have power to appoint a substitute to take
his place, failing an agreement by the captains
of the respective sides.
He cannot alter any decision when given.
It rests with him to impose penalties for
irregularities, and to give all necessary
directions within the Laws. He has full
power to decide if any parts of a player's
dress, including boots and projections thereon,
are dangerous, and in that case must order such
player to remove the same and not allow him
to take further part in the game until after
such removal.
He is not entitled to contract out of the
Laws of the Game by agreeing with both
sides to vary or not to recognise any law.
?s
He must not allow anyone but the players
on the field of play during a game except at
his request.
The Referee must carry a whistle. The
whistle when blown stops the game for the
time being. The Referee shall blow it only
to indicate :—
(a)	A Fair catch (even though he has
blown for a knock-on or throw-forward).
(6) Player hurt (so soon afterwards as
the ball has become dead and subject to
resumption of play in not more than three
minutes).
(c)	Danger, when continuation of play
would be dangerous.
(d)	That the ball or player carrying it has
touched him.
(e)	Half-time or No-side, as soon as the
ball has become dead, except as the result
of a try.
(/) A goal.
(g) That the ball has gone into Touch-in-
goal.
(h) A breach of Law, or irregularity of
play, unless the non-offending side gain an
advantage.
29
(j) That he is awarding a penalty.
(/?) Foul play or misconduct.
(/) That a stoppage is necessary for any
other reason.
The Referee shall not blow his whistle :—
(m) Simply because a player is tackled.
(•;/) When an irregularity occurs from
which the non-offending side gains an
advantage. (Subject to Laws 21, 22, 23,
24 and 27).
In case of any dispute relative to a Try or
a kick at goal where it is possible that an
appeal may be made to this Union, the
Referee should allow the kick at goal, so that
if the Union afterward support the appeal,
the goal points may be added, if the kick were
successful.
LAW 11. Functions of Touch Judges.
Each Touch Judge must carry a flag and
remain in touch, one on each side of the ground,
except when a kick at goal from a try, free kick
or penalty kick is being taken, when both
must assist the Referee by standing, one at
each of the goal posts of the defending side
3°
and signalling a goal by raising his flag The
Touch Judge must hold up his flag when and
where the ball goes into touch, or touch-in-
goal, and indicate which side .is entitled to
bring the ball into play. Any decision of a
Touch Judge may be over-ruled by the
Referee.
A Touch Judge is under the control of the
Referee, who has power to deal with him as a
player under Law 34 (b).
Part III.—The play in detail.
LAW 12. Number of Players. The game shall
be played by not more than fifteen players on
each side. Any objection by either side in
connection with this law may be made at any
time, but it shall not affect any score pre-
viously obtained.
LAW 13. Mode of play. The game is started
by a kick-off, after which any player who is
on-side may, at any time, kick, pick up, or
31
run with the ball, or tackle an opponent
holding the ball, except that it may not be
picked up or handled :—
(a)	In a scrummage.
(b)	When it has been put down after a
tackle.
(c)	When it is on the ground after a player
has been tackled.
The ball may be passed or knocked from
one player to another provided it be not
passed, knocked or thrown forward.
LAW 14. Knock-on or throw-forward. A throw-
in from touch is not a throw-forward ; a
rebound is not a knock-on.
If the ball be passed back, but, after alight-
ing on the ground behind the place from which
it was passed, it bounce forward, the pass is
in order.
In the case of a throw-forward or knock-on
the ball shall be brought back to the place of
infringement and there be scrummaged,
unless :—
(a)	a Fair-catch has been allowed.
(b)	the opposing side gain an advantage.
32
(c)	in the opinion of the Referee such
throw-forward or knock-on be wilful when
he may award a penalty kick at the place
of infringement.
1 his law shall not apply to a wilful knock-on
or throw-forward into touch (Law 28).
LAW 15. Scrummage. In all cases when the
Referee orders a scrummage, or one team
exercises its right to claim a scrummage, the
Referee shall award to the team which is not
responsible for the stoppage in the game, the
right of putting the ball into the scrummage.
In case of doubt, the Referee shall award such
right to the team which is territorially on
the defensive.
In all cases when a scrummage is ordered
between the 25 yards lines for an infringement
occurring within 10 yards of the touch line,
such scrummage shall take place 10 yards
from the touch line on a line through the
place where the infringement occurred and
parallel to the goal lines.
The referee may order the ball to be put
into the scrummage on either side he may
choose.
It is illegal for more than three players of
each team to form the front row of a
33
scrummage before the ball is put in.
Referees shall not inflict a penalty for this
breach of the law unless wilful or persistent.
Infringements:—
(«) In all cases when a scrummage is
ordered or taken, no player shall, after the
scrummage has been formed, wilfully add
himself to the front row of the scrummage
so as to form more than three in that row,
until the ball has been put in.
(6) No player shall wilfully prevent the
ball being fairly put into the scrummage.
The ball is not fairly in the scrummage
until it has been put in straight, has touched
the ground between the opposing players,
and has passed both feet of a player of
each team.
The ball is not fairly in the scrummage if
it pass straight through or if it enter the
scrummage and be immediately kicked out
at either side.
A player who moves either foot beyond
the front line of his forwards before the
ball is fairly in the scrummage shall be
treated as so wilfully preventing.
34
(c)	The ball shall be placed in the scrum-
mage without delay.
W No player shall (subject to Law 26 (b\)
intentionally either handle the ball or fall
down in a scrummage or pick the ball out
of a scrummage or pick it up in a scrummage
either by hands or legs.
(e) No player lying on the ground shall
interfere with the ball in any way whilst
it is in a scrummage.
(/) No player shall wilfully put the ball
unfairly into the scrummage, or the ball
having come out, wilfully return it by hand
or foot into the scrummage.
Penalty'.—Penalty kick awarded at the
place of infringement.
LAW 16. Tackle.
(a)	When a player is tackled in the field
of play he must immediately put down the
ball between himself and his opponents’ goal
line.
(6) When a player is tackled, the ball must
be brought into play with the foot.
35
(c) No player shall pick up the ball, after
a tackled player has put it down, before it
has been played with the foot.
(d)	The tackled player, if lying on the
ground, must immediately roll away from the
ball and get up before playing it with the
foot.
(e)	No player shall prevent such tackled
player from getting up or putting the ball
down.
(/) No player lying on the ground after a
tackle shall interfere with the ball in any way,
until it has been played with the foot.
Penalty:—Penalty kick awarded at the
place of infringement.
If a player carrying the ball be thrown or
knocked over, but not tackled, he may
nevertheless pass the ball or get up and
continue his run, even though the ball has
touched the ground.
LAW 17. Off-side. A player is Off-side—
(a) If he enter the scrummage from his
opponents’ side.
(b)	If whilst the ball is in a scrummage he,
not being in a scrummage, remain in front of
the ball or attempt to hook the ball out
neither foot being behind it.
(c)	If when the ball is thrown in from touch
he stand in front of a line at right angles tc
the touch line from the place whence the ball
.s thrown.
PenaltyPenalty kick awarded at the
place of infringement.
(d)	If, in his own In-goal, he be in front of
one of his own side who is taking a free kick
or penalty kick from behind the goal line,
in which case all the kicker’s side must be
behind the ball when kicked. Otherwise a
player cannot be off-side in his own In-goal.
Penally :—Scrummage five yards from the
goal line opposite the place of infringement.
(0) If the ball has been kicked or touched or
is being carried by one of his own side behind
him.
No off-side player shall play the ball or
actively or passively obstruct an opponent,
or approach or .wilfully remain within 10
yards of an opponent waiting for the ball.
Penalty:—Penalty kick awarded at the
place of infringement, or scrummage where
37
the ball was last played by the offending side,
at the option of the other side.
No player shall shout "all on side or
words to that effect when any member of
his side is off-side.
PenaltyPenalty kick awarded at the
place of infringement or scrummage where
the ball was last played by the offending side
at the option of the other side.
If the ball or a player carrying it touch a
player who is accidentally off-side, the Referee
shall order a scrummage.
LAW 18. On-Side. An " off-side ” player be-
comes ” on-side ”—
(a)	When an opponent carrying the ball
has run five yards.
(b)	When the ball has been kicked by an
opponent.
(c)	When an opponent has intentionally
touched the ball, provided such opponent do
not catch or gather it.
(d)	When one of his own side has run in
front of him either carrying the ball or after
having kicked the ball when behind him.
38
Such kicker must be in the field of play to
put the off-side player on-side, though he is
not debarred from previously following up in
touch.
LAW 19. Charging and Obstruction.—
(a)	No player running for the ball shall
charge an opponent also running for the ball,
except shoulder to shoulder. A player who
is not running for the ball must not charge or
obstruct an opponent not hold ng the ball.
(fi) A player overtaking an opponent also
running for the ball must not shove him
from behind, unless he is stooping to pick up
the ball.
(c) No player shall hold an opponent who
is not carrying the ball
(d)	No player shall charge, shove, or hold
an opponent at the line out on the ball being
thrown in from touch.
Penalty:—Penalty kick awarded at the
place of infringement.
(e)	A player not himself running for the
ball must not wilfully charge or obstruct an
opponent who has just kicked the ball.
.39
Penalty:—The opposing side shall be
awarded at their option a penalty kick at
the place of infringement, or at the spot where
the ball alights. In the event of the ball
alighting in touch the mark shall be at a spot
ten yards from the touch line on a line parallel
to the goal line through the point where it
crossed the touch line ; or in the event of the
ball alighting in In-goal the mark shall be at
a spot not less than ten yards from the goal
line on a line parallel to the touch line through
the spot where it crossed the goal line.
LAW 20. Lying on the ball. A player lying on
the ground with the ball in his possession
must immediately get up or roll away from
the ball.
Penally:—Penalty kick awarded at the
place of infringement.
LAW 21. Kick-off. At kick-off a place kick
must be taken.
(«) The ball must reach the 10 yards line,
otherwise it shall be kicked off again or
scrummaged at the centre, at the opponents’
40
option. If it reach the 10 yards line and be
then blown back, play shall continue.
(b)	The kicker’s side must all be behind
the ball; if not, it shall be scrummaged at
the centre.
(c)	The opposing side must not stand within
ten yards of the half-way line ; otherwise
the ball shall be kicked off again.
(d)	The opposing side must not charge until
the ball has been kicked; otherwise the ball
shall be kicked off again.
(e)	If the ball pitch in touch, the opposing
side may accept the kick, have the ball
kicked off again, or have it scrummaged at
the centre.
Law 10 (n) as to advantage does not apply.
LAW 22. Drop-out. At drop-out a Drop kick
must be taken from within the 25 yards line.
(a) If the kick be taken outside the 25 yards
line another drop-out shall be ordered.
(5) The opposing side must not charge over
the 25 yards line ; otherwise another drop-out
shall be ordered.
41
(c) The ball must reach the 25 yards line ;
if not, the opposing side may have it dropped
out again or scrummaged at the centre of
the 25 yards line. If it reach the 25 yards
line and be then blown back, play shall
continue.
(d)	If the ball pitch in touch, the opposing
side may accept the kick, have the ball
dropped out again, or scrummaged at the
centre of the 25 yards line.
(e)	AU the kicker’s side must be behind the
ball when kicked, otherwise the Referee shall
order a scrummage at the centre of the 25
yards line.
Law 10 (n) as to advantage does not apply.
LAW 23. Free Kick. A free kick must be taken
at or behind the mark, on a line through the
mark paraUel to the touch line ; the kick
must be taken by the player making the
Fair catch and the ball must travel in the
direction of his opponents’ goal line.
In the case of a place kick at goal, the ball
must not be handled by the kicker after it
is placed on the ground.
42
In every case the kicker’s side, other than
the placer for a place kick, must be behind the
ball when the kick is taken, and may follow
up. The opposing side may come up to,
but not beyond, a line through the mark
parallel to the goal line, and may charge
subject to the following conditions :—
(a) In the case of a place kick, so soon
as the ball is placed on the ground.
(b)	In the case of a drop kick or punt,
so soon as the kicker begins his run or
offers to kick, provided that whenever he
then draws back with the ball still in his
hands, they retire to the line of the mark.
Penalty :—
(a) For infringements by the kicker’s
side—a scrummage at the mark. (Subject
to Law 17 (d) ).
(b) For infringements by the opposing
side, charge disallowed ; if the kick has
been taken, the kicker shall be allowed the
option of another kick under the original
conditions without the charge.
If the kick be taken from behind a goal
line the ball must travel across that line,
otherwise the kick must be re-taken.
Law 10 (w) as to advantage does not apply*
43
LAW 24. Penalty Kick. A penalty kick must
be taken at or behind the mark, on a line
through the mark parallel to the touch line,
and the ball must travel in the direction of
the opponents’ goal line. The kick may be
taken by any player of the side, and for a
place kick the kicker may place the ball.
In every case the kicker’s side, other than the
placer for a place kick, must be behind the
ball when the kick is taken and may follow
up.
The opposing side must remain passive
on or behind a line through the mark parallel
to the goal line, until the kick has been
taken.
Players who are standing at or near the
mark must not attempt to stop the ball in
its flight.
Penalty:—
(a)	For infringements by the kicker’s
side—a scrummage at the mark. (Subject
to Law 17 (d) ).
(6) For infringements by the opposing
side—if the kick has ' been taken, the
kjeker shall have the option of another
kick under the original conditions.
44
If the kick be taken from behind a goal
line the ball must travel across that line,
otherwise the kick must be retaken.
Law 10 («) as to advantage does not apply.
LAW 25. Place kick at Goal after a try. The
ball must be brought into the fie’d of play,
and be placed on the ground on a line parallel
to the touch line through the spot where the
try was obtained, for a kick at goal to be taken.
Any player of the side may take the kick,
but the ball must not be handled by the
kicker after it has been placed on the ground.
(a) All the kicker’s side, other than the
placer, must be behind the ball when kicked.
(b) The opposing side must be behind the
goal line until the ball is placed on the ground
lor the kick, when they may charge or jump
with a view to touching the ball.
Penalty :—
(a) For infringements by the kicker s
side—the kick shall be disallowed.
(£) For infringements by the opposing
side, charge disallowed; if the kick has
been taken, the kicker shall be allowed
45
the option of another kick under the
original conditions without the charge.
Under Laws 23 and 25 :—
When a player is placing the ball he shall
not wilfully do anything which may lead
his opponents to charge before the ball is
placed on the ground; if he do the charge
shall not be disallowed.
Under Laws 23, 24 and 25 :—
A goal may be awarded if the ball, after
being kicked, be illegally stopped by the
defending side or any of them, and if the
Referee be of opinion that a goal would
otherwise undoubtedly have been obtained.
LAW 26. Try. A try, as defined in Law 2, is
scored in the following cases :—
(a) If a player pass, knock, or kick the ball
into his own In-goal and an opponent first
touch it down.
(b) If a side in a scrummage push the other
side over the latter’s goal line and first touch
the ball down in In-goal. If the defending
side touch it down a Touch-down shall be
awarded.
46
(c)	If a player touch the ball down in his
opponents’ In-goal and pick it up again a
try shall be awarded where it was first touched
down.
The Referee shall award a try if, in his
opinion, one would undoubtedly have been
obtained but for the unfair play or unlawful
interference of the defending team. Such
try^ shall be awarded on a line parallel to the
touch line through the spot where the ball
was when the infringement took place.
A try may be scored by a player who is in
touch or in touch-in-goal provided he is not
carrying the ball.
LAW 27. In touch.
The ball is in touch when it, or a player
carrying it, touches or crosses a touch line.
A player may be in touch and yet play the
ball with his foot if the ball be not in touch.
If the ball cross the touch line and be then
blown back it is in touch at the spot where
it first passed over the line.
The ball must be brought into play by an
opponent of the player whom it last touched
in the field of play, unless such player carrying
47
the ball is physically forced into touch by an
opponent, in which case it shall be brought
into play by the player so forced or by one
of his side.
The ball shall be brought into play at the
spot where it went into touch by one of the
following methods :—
(a) Throwing it into the field of play so
as to alight at least five yards at right
angles to the touch line,
or
(b)	Scrummaging it ten yards from the
place where it went into touch, at right
angles to the touch line.
If the ball, when thrown in from touch, do
not alight at right angles to the touch line,
the opposing side shall bring the ball into play
as in (6).
Law 10 (h) as to advantage does not apply.
LAW 28. Wilful throwing, etc., into touch. If
a player wilfully pass, knock, or throw the
ball into touch, the opposing side shall be
awarded at their option a penalty kick or
a scrummage :—
48
(a) At right angles
yards from the place
into touch,
to the touch line ten
where the ball went
or
(b) At the spot where such pass, knock
or throw occurred.
In the case of a penalty kick the spot
whether under (a) or (b), shall be taken as the
mark. This law shall not over-ride the power
of the Referee to allow a try under Law 26.
LAW 29. Touch-in-goal. The ball is in Touch-
in-goal when it or a player carrying it touches
a corner post, or touches or crosses a Touch-
in-goal line. The flag shall not be regarded
as part of the corner post.
LAW 30. Ball, etc., touching Referee. If the
ball or a player carrying it touch the Referee
in the field-of-play a scrummage shall be
ordered at the spot.
If a player holding the ball whilst in play
in his own In-goal touch the Referee, a
Touch-down shall be awarded; and if the
ball, whilst in play in In-goal at ei ther en ,
but not held by a player, touch the Referee,
49
a Touch Judge, or a spectator, a Touch-down
shall be awarded, provided that a Touch-down
would otherwise have been obtained, or the
ball would have gone dead ; and if the issue
be in doubt when the ball touches a spectator,
a Touch-down shall be awarded the visiting
team, provided they are the defending side.
If a player cross his opponents’ goal line
with the ball in his possession and, before
grounding it, touch the Referee, a try shall
be awarded at the spot.
If the ball whilst in play in In-goal at either
end, but not held by a player, touch the
Referee, a Touch Judge, or spectator, a try
shall be awarded at the spot, provided an
attacking player would otherwise have scored
it; and if the issue be in doubt when the ball
touches a spectator, a try shall be awarded at
the spot to the visiting team, provided they
are the attacking side.
LAW 31. Ball held in In-goal. If the ball whilst
in the possession of a player in In-goal be
fairly held by an opposing player before it is
grounded, it shall be scrummaged five yards
from the goal line opposite the spot where it
was held.
50
LAW 32. Taking ball over own goal line. T( a
defending player wilfully kick, pass, knock
or carry the ball back into his own In-goai
and it be there made dead, except as the
result of a try, the ball shall be brought back
and scrummaged at the spot whence it was
kicked, passed, knocked or carried back.
This law covers heeling back or an intentional
fumble whereby the ball goes into a player’s
own In-goal, provided it be made dead in each
case.
LAW 33. Infringements in In-goal, etc. The
Referee must disallow a try and awprd a
Touch-down if in his opinion a try would
undoubtedly not have been gained but for
unfair play or unlawful interference on the
part of the attacking side.
For infringements in In-goal not provided
for, the penalty shall be :—
(a) For an offence by the attacking side- a
Touch-down.
(b) For an offence by the defending side—
a scrummage five yards from the goal line
opposite the place of infringement.
51
I AW 34. Foul play, Misconduct. The following
are prohibited :—
(a) Foul play, including—
(i) wilful hacking, tripping, or
striking.
(u) wilfully holding a player not in
possession of the ball.
(m) illegal tackling, charging or ob-
struction.
(Z>) Misconduct.
Penalty :—For (a) and (&) :—The Referee
shall award a penalty kick at the place of
infringement (subject to Law 19 (e) ), and on
the first offence shall either caution the player
or order him off the ground. For the second
offence he must order him off.
(c)	Persistent infringement of the laws.
Penalty:—The Referee must order the
player off the ground.
If ordered off the player shall take no further
part in the game in progress, and must be
reported to this Union by the Referee. In
International matches the report is to be made
to the International Board.
LAW 35. Waste of time. Waste of time caused
intentionally by any player, or by a side,
including the wilful infringement of any law
or laws for which the penalty is only a scrum-
mage, is illegal.
Penalty:—Penalty kick awarded at the
place of infringement.
LAW 36. Irregularities not provided for. When a
law is broken or any irregularity of play not
otherwise provided for occurs, and an ad-
vantage is gained therefrom by the opposing
side, the Referee shall not blow his whistle
but shall allow the game to continue; but
if no advantage be gained by such side, and
if no other procedure be provided, the ball
shall be taken back to the place where the
breach of the law or irregularity occurred and
there be scrummaged.
53
APPEALS
to the
Rugby Football Union Committee
on
Referees’ Decisions on Points of Law.
Clubs are requested to notice that when they
desire to make an appeal on points which have
occurred in a particular Match, before forwarding
the Appeal to the Secretary the statement should
be submitted to the Referee for his views to be
expressed on it.
9i
CIRCULAR LETTER
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL
RUGBY FOOTBALL BOARD
(1926).
Issued to Players and Referees with a view to
securing uniformity of Rulings.
Since the last circular letter was addressed by
the Board to Players and Referees the laws have
been re-drafted, and additional decisions have been
given ; the Board, therefore, consider it advisable
to issue a further circular with a view to assisting
Referees.
LAW 2. “ Fair Catch.”
A “ Fair Catch ” cannot be made otherwise
than direct from the hand or any part of the
arm, or any part of the leg from the knee to
the toe.
LAW 10.
No player shall leave the ground at half-time
without the permission of the Referee. This
permission should be restricted, as the Board
see no reason for this practice of retiring to
the pavilion which is increasing and in some
cases is taken advantage of by practically all
the players.
92
LAW 10 (c).
If the tackled player played the laws in the
spirit in which they are written and at once
fairly parted with the bal', very few cases of
danger can arise, but by holding on a short
time danger may arise. In such cases a
Referee should award a penalty.
LAW 10 (w).
Referees should see that an advantage
(generally meaning “ territorial advantage ")
is gained by the non-offending side, failing
which they should whistle for the offence.
An opportunity of gaining an advantage is not
sufficient.
LAW 15 (par. 3).
If possible he should give preference to that
side of the scrummage on which the team
having the privilege of putting the ball in has
the outside man in the front row.
LAW 15 (c).
The Referee should insist on this law being
strictly enforced. He should not, except for
the purpose of ensuring that the ball is put
into the scrummage at the proper place,
permit the ball to be thrown from one player
93
to another, but should insist on the player in
possession of the ball placing it in the scrum-
mage forthwith.
Any delay in placing the ball in the scrum-
mage caused by a player with the ball waiting
for any of his side to join the scrummage must
be treated as wilful waste of time.
The Board view with great concern the
difficulty which obtains at present in
getting the ball fairly into the Scrummage.
In the opinion of the Board, this is
entirely due to irregularities on the part
of the half-back putting in the ball or the
forwards wilfully preventing.
Referees must immediately inflict the
necessary penalty kick.
LAW 19 (c).
Pulling any part of the clothing of an
opponent should be dealt with as holding
under this Law and under Law 34 (a) ii.
The Referee should not penalise a player who
in grasping an opponent is in such a position
that he is not able to see whether such oppon-
ent has parted with the ball and who immedi-
ately releases him when he finds he has not the
ball in his possession.
94
LAW 23.
Any gradual creeping up beyond the mark
shall be considered as a charge.
LAW 24.
“ Passive ” means that a player must
remain standing with his hands by his side
and must not in any way attempt to put the
kicker off his kick.
LAW 26 (J).
Where the Referee is unable to say who in
fact first touched the ball in “ in-goal ” he
should allow a Touch-down to the defending
side. He has no power to order a scrummage
five yards out under these circumstances.
LAW 34.
The attention of Referees is drawn to this
Law covering " Wilful obstruction ” or ” In-
terference,” which must be very sharply
dealt with, as there is a growing tendency
among players to risk a penalty kick in order
to gain or save a try by unfair play.
95
LAW 35.
Where a penalty kick is awarded for repeated
infringements in throwing the ball in from
touch, the mark for such kick shall be ten
yards from the touch line on a line through
the place of infringement, parallel to the goal
line. If done persistently this should be dealt
with under Law 34 (c).
The Board has decided that a Referee shall
not give any instructions or directions to
either team prior to a match.
The Board are strongly of opinion that the
Laws of the game are more than sufficient
to stamp out any and all of the unfair practices
indulged in, provided Referees will only act,
and act promptly, and enforce the full penalties
which they are empowered to inflict. The
respective Unions constituting the Inter-
national Board are prepared and anxious to
support Referees in such actions, no matter
how drastically they enforce the Laws of the
game.
96
The Board has given the following decisions
on the facts stated :—(March, 1924)
(1)	A player holding the ball is grasped
by an opponent and is brought to the
ground, but is not sufficiently held to
prevent his passing the ball. May he
do so ?
(a) If the ball has not touched the
ground ?
Answer—Yes.
(b) If the ball has touched the ground ?
Answer—Yes.
(2)	A player holding the ball is grasped
and brought down by an opponent and the
ball touches the ground, but the player is
not sufficiently held to prevent him lifting
the ball and placing it over the line.
Should a try be allowed ?
Answer—Yes.
(3)	A player holding the ball running for
the line is grasped by an opponent and
brought down, the ball touching the ground
outside the line, but player and ball,
without ever coming to rest, slide over the
line.
Should a try be allowed ?
Answer—Yes.
The Board has passed the following resolu-
tions :—
“ That the employment of a paid Trainer
or Coach is contrary to the principles of
Amateur Rugby Football.” (March, 1914).
“ The Board recommends that no me-
mento exceeding in value the sum of £2
shall be given to players.” (November,
1923).
“ That, in the opinion of this Board, it is
contrary to the spirit of Amateur Rugby
Football that teams should be assembled
at a centre during a period prior to a match
for the purpose of change of air and
training.” (March, 1925).