31
The
LAWS OF THE GAME
OF RUGBY FOOTBALL
as framed by
The International Rugby
Football Board
Black vertical line denotes where changes
in the Notes on the Laws have occurred since
publication of the 1958-59 Handbook.
32
Laws of the Game
lllUVxY IV	Refer to Law-
Accidental off-side Advantage	18 10 (14) (c), 10 (15), 14 (5), 21, 22, 23, 24, 27, 37
Appeals Ball, Dimensions ol Held in in-goal Illegally touched	10 4 31 2, 15 (A), 15 (B) (9), 23, 25
In touch In touch-in-goal Lying on Rebounding Taking over own goal line Touching Referee, Touch Judge or spectator Charge disallowed Charging an opponent Charging at kicks Choice of ends Commencement of match Corner post Crossbar Danger Dead ball Dead ball line Delays	10(14) (d), 20, 27 10(14) (d), 20, 29 17 2, 14 32 10(14) (//), 30 23, 25 20, 34 21 (e), 22 (d), 23, 25 9 9, 10, 13 1,2, 29 1 10(c), 15(B) (5) 2, 10(14) (i) 1 8, 10, 15 (B) (1) and
Dress Drop kick Drop-out Duration of game Enclosure, Playing Failure of Referee’s watch Fair-catch	(7) 5, 10(11) 2, 22, 23 2, 22 8 2 10(5) 2, 10(14) (g), 14(a) 23
33
	Refer to Law—
Field-of-play Flags Foul play Free kick Functions of Referee Functions of Touch judges Goal	1,2,3 1, 11, 29 10 (14) (k), 34 2, 23 10 11 2, 10 (14) (d), 23, 24, 25
Goal kick in case of dispute Goal line and goal posts Grounding ball Hacking Half-time Half-way line Holding opponent Infringements in in-goal In-goal In-goal play International matches Interval Irregularities not provided for Kick Kick-off Knock-on Line-out Lying on ball Mark Method of scoring Misconduct	10(16) 1,3 2, 16, 26 34 8, 10 (14) (/) 1,21 (J) 20 (rf), 34 (n) 33 1, 3 2, 26, 30,31,32, 33 34 8, 10(14) 37 2, 13 2, 9, 13,21 2, 13,14 18, 27 17 2 7 10 (14) (£), 34 (Z>) and (c)
Mode of play No-side Number of players Objections Obstruction Off-side On-side	13 2, 10 (14) (Z) 12 3, 12 20, 34 (a) 2, 18 2, 13, 19
THE PLAN, including all words and figures thereon, is to take effect
as part of these Laws.
THE TERMS appearing on the Plan are to bear their apparent
meaning, and to be deemed part of the definitions as if separately included
. LAW 1. Plan of the Field.
Laws of the Game
Notes: D Indicates Post with Flag.
Length and breadth of Field to be as near to dimensions indicated as possible.
--------These broken lines indicate 10.yards distance from the half-way line
and 5 yards distance from the Touch Lines.
Goal dimensions.—10 feet is taken from the ground to the top edge of the Crossbar
and 18 feei 6 inches from inside to inside of the goal posts.
Where practicable the intersection of the dead ball line and touch-in-goal lines
should be indicated by a flag.
36
Options
Refer to Law-
18, 20,21 (/>), 21
22 (£>), 22
23 (ii), 24
(/)>
(e),
(2),
Penalty
Kick
Try
Picking up the ball
Place kick
25 (it)
10(14) (/)
2, 24
26
13, 16
2, 21 (a), 23
24 (a), 25
(Z>).
Plan of field
Players, Dress
Hurt
Leaving playing enclosure
Number of
Reported to Constituent Body
Reported to Union
Touching Referee
Playing enclosure
Persons entitled thereon
Players leaving and returning to
Sending off the
Punt
1
5, 10(11)
10 (14) (i), 23
10(13)
12
35
34
10 (14) (d), 30
2
10 (12)
10(13)
34
2
Pushing an opponent
Rebound
Referee, Appointment
Functions of
Repeated infringement of the Laws
Scoring, Method of
Scrummage
Entering from opponents’ side
Forcing way through
Pushed over goal line
Right of putting ball into
Start of match
Stoppage of match
Stoppage of play
20 (d)
2, 14
6,
10
15, 35
7
2, 15, 18
18 (2) (a)
20 (e)
26(b)
15, 26,31,32
9, 13
10(8)
8, 10(14), 15(B) (6)
37
Striking an opponent
Studs
Tackle
Tackled player
Ten yards line
Throw-forward
Time
Timekeeper
Touch
Throwing in from
Throwing into
Touch down
Touch-in-goal
Touch Judges, Appointment of
Functions of
Touch line
Tripping
Try
Twenty-five yards line
Unconverted try
Union, Appeals to
Upright
Waste of time
Whistle
Wilful charging an opponent
Hacking, tripping or striking
Holding
Infringements
Kick, pass, knock or carry over
own goal line
Knock-on
Misleading opponent
Throw-forward
Throw into touch
Refer to Law—
34
5
2, 10(15), 16
8
10(1)
1, 2, 3,10 (14) (J), 27
11, 14, 20, 27
28
2, 10 (14) (c), 26 (/>),
30, 33
1, 2, 3, 10 (14) (d),
11, 29
6
10, 11
I, 27
34
2, 7, 10, 26, 30,33
1,22
2,21
10, 34
15(B)(1), 15(B) (7),
36
10(14)
20
34
20 (d), 27 (d), 34
36
32
14 (^
25
14 (d)
28
38
The lines in the margin denote alterations to, and
rewording of, the Laws
Part I.—Definitions and Glossary of
Terms.
LAW 2. The following terms have the meaning
assigned to them, that is to say:—
“ Beyond ” or “ Behind ” or “ In front ” of
any position indicated implies “ with both
feet ” except when unsuited to the context.
Dead means that the ball is for the time
being out of play, an event that occurs when
the Referee’s whistle is blown to indicate a
stoppage of play or when an attempt to
convert a try is unsuccessful.
Defending Team means the team in whose
half of the ground the stoppage of play occurs.
Fair-Catch. A fair-catch is obtained when
a player catches the ball direct from a kick,
knock-on, or throw forward by one of the
opposing team if at the same time the catcher
makes a mark on the ground with his heel and
exclaims “ Mark.”
A fair-catch can be made in a player's own
in-goal.
, 7/ fnay be obtained even though the
all on its way touches or rebounds from a
goal post or cross bar.
Laws of the Game
39
Field-of-Play. The field-of-play is the space
as shown on the plan, bounded by, but not
including, the goal lines and touch lines.
Playing Enclosure. The playing enclosure
means the field-of-play and a reasonable area
surrounding it.
Goal. A goal is obtained by kicking the
ball over the opponents’ cross bar from the
field-of-play, by any place kick or drop kick
except a kick-off or drop-out, without touching
the ground or any player of either team.
A goal is scored if the ball has crossed the
bar, even though it may have been blown back
afterwards, and whether it has touched the
cross bar or either goal post or not.
A goal is scored if the ball has crossed the
bar notwithstanding a prior offence by a
player of the opposing team.
A goal may be awarded if the ball is illegally
touched by any player of the opposing team
if the Referee is of the opinion that a goal
would otherwise undoubtedly have been
obtained.
Grounding the Ball. Grounding the ball is
the act of a player placing his hand or hands
40
on the ball, while it is on the ground, so that
he is able to exert on it a downward pressure.
Picking up the ball from the ground is not
“ grounding it''
Kick. A kick is made by propelling the ball
with the foot, or leg from the knee to the
toe inclusive.
Drop Kick. A drop kick is made by a player
in possession of the ball letting it fall from the
hand or hands to the ground and kicking it at
the first rebound as it rises.
Place Kick. A place kick is made by
kicking the ball after it has been placed on
the ground for that purpose.
Punt. A punt is made by a player in
possession of the ball letting it fall from the
hand or hands and kicking it before it touches
the ground.
Drop-Out. A drop-out is a drop kick taken
by the defending team after a touch down
or after the ball has touched or crossed the
touch-in-goal or dead ball line.
Free Kick. A free kick is a kick allowed
l^vaJalr'C,atC,h' !t may be taken by a place
Kick, drop kick or punt.
Laws of the Game
41
Kick-off. Kick-off is a place kick taken
from the centre of the half-way line—
(fl) at the beginning of a match,
(b) on the resumption of play after the
half-time interval and
(c) after a goal has been kicked, or a
drop-kick taken at or from behind
the centre of the half-way line after
an unconverted try.
Penalty Kick. A penalty kick is a kick
awarded to the non-offending team by reason
of an infringement of the Laws by their op-
ponents. It may be taken by a place kick,
drop kick or punt.
Knock-on. A knock-on occurs when the
ball is propelled by the hand or arm of a
player in the direction of his opponents’ dead
ball line or when the ball after striking the
hand or arm of a player travels in the said
direction; provided that a movement of the ball
in the player’s grasp which is in the nature of a
steadying or re-adjustment of the ball within
his possession without loss of control is not
a knock-on.
Throw-forward. A throw-forward occurs
when the ball in the possession of a player is
thrown in the direction of his opponents’ dead
42
ball line. A throw-in from touch is not a
throw-forward. If the ball is not passed
forward but, after alighting on the ground it
bounces forward, the pass is in order.
Rebound. A rebound occurs when the ball
after striking any part of a player except his
hand, arm, or leg from the knee to the toe
inclusive travels in the direction of his
opponents* dead ball line. A rebound is not
a knock-on.
Mark. The mark is the place at which a
free kick or penalty kick is awarded.
No-Side. The end of a match.
Off-Side. Off-side denotes that a player
is in such a position that he is out of the
Game, and that it is illegal for him to play
the ball or interfere with an opponent.
On-Side. On-side denotes that a player is
in the Game and not off-side.
Scrummage. A scrummage, which can only
take place in the field-of-play, may be either a
loose scrummage or a set scrummage:—
(a) a loose scrummage is formed by one
or more players from each team in
physical contact and on their feet
closing round the ball when it is on
the ground between them.
Laws of the Game
43
(Z>) A set scrummage is formed by
players from each team closing up in
readiness to allow the ball to be put
on the ground between them in
accordance with Law 15 (B).
Tackle. A tackle occurs when the holder
of the ball in the field-of-play is held by one
or more players of the opposing team so that
while he is so held the ball comes in contact
with the ground, or there is a moment when he
cannot pass or play the ball inanyothermanner.
Touch-down. A touch-down is obtained by
the act of a defending player first grounding
the ball in his own in-goal.
Try. A try is obtained by the act of an
attacking player first grounding the ball in
his opponents’ in-goal.
Where appropriate a definition is repeated at
the head of the relevant Law.
H4
44
Part n—Preliminary.
LAW 3. Ground.
All lines shown on the plan must be suitably
marked out. The touch lines are in touch. 1 he
goal lines are in in-goal. The touch-in-goal
lines and corner posts are in touch-in-goal. The
goal posts are to be erected in the goal lines.
Any objection by the visiting team arising in
connection with the subject matter of Laws 1
and 3 must be made before the first kick-off.
LAW 4. Ball.
The ball shall be oval in shape and of the
following description, as far as possible:—
Length in line _________
Circumference (end on) ...
„ (in width)
11 to 11| ins.
30 to 31 ins.
24 to 25| ins.
13| to 15 ozs.
Weight _________
LAW 5. Players’ Dress.
A player may not wear dangerous projections
—buckles, rings, etc. Shoulder pads are pro-
hibited unless the Referee is satisfied that a player
requires protection following injury and that the
protective pad is not of hard material. Any studs
Laws of the Game
45
on his boots must be of leather, rubber, alu-
minium, or any approved plastic, circular,
securely fastened, provided the following dimen-
sions are rigidly adhered to, namely:—
Maximum length (measured from sole) J in.
Minimum diameter at base ............. | in.
Minimum diameter at top .............. -J in.
The Referee has full power to decide before or
during the game that any part of a player’s
dress, including boots and projections thereon,
is dangerous and in that case must order such
player to remove the same and not allow him to
take further part in the match until after such
removal.
LAW 6. Appointment of Referee and Touch
Judges.
In all matches a Referee and two Touch
Judges must be appointed or mutually agreed
upon.
LAW 7. Method of Scoring.
A try..............................3 points
A goal from a try (in which case
the try shall not count)........ 5 „
46
A goal from a free kick or penalty
kick ... ... ................... J Pls-
A dropped goal otherwise obtained 3 „
LAW 8. Time, etc.
In International matches two periods of
40 minutes each shall be played; in other
matches the duration of play shall be agreed
upon by the respective teams, or if not agreed
upon shall be fixed by the Referee.
Play shall be divided into halves. At half-time
the teams shall change over and there shall be an
interval of not more than five minutes. A period
not exceeding two minutes shall be allowed for
any other permitted delay. A longer period than
two minutes may be allowed only if the additional
time is required for the removal of an injured
player from the field-of-play. Playing time lost
as a result of any such permitted delay shall be
made up in that half of the game in which such
delay occurred, subject to Law 10 (8).
LAW 9.
Before a match begins the captains shall toss
for the right to kick-off or the choice of ends.
LAW 10. Functions of Referee.
(1)	The Referee is sole timekeeper and judge
of fact, and shall keep the score.
Laws of the Game
47
(2)	He is sole judge of Law, subject to a right
of appeal to this Union.
(3)	He is not entitled to contract out of the
Laws of the Game by agreeing with both teams
to vary or not to recognise any Law.
(4)	He must not give any instructions or
directions to either team prior to a match.
(5)	He may, before arriving at a decision,
consult the Touch Judges or either of them on
any point of fact material to their functions, or
with regard to time in the case of failure of his
watch.
(6)	He may not consult with anyone else,
except with regard to time, and then only if the
information supplied by the Touch Judges is
insufficient.
(7)	He must allow extra time for delays,
subject to Law 8 and the next following Clause
of this Law.
(8)	He has power to stop a match before time
has expired if, in his opinion, the full time
cannot be played.
(9)	In the case of his being unable to officiate
during the whole period of a match, he shall have
power to appoint a substitute to take his place,
failing an agreement by the captains of the respec-
tive teams.
48
(10)	He cannot alter any decision when
given (except only when such a decision is given
without knowledge of the fact that the Touch
Judge's flag remains raised and he does not over-
rule such decision of the Touch Judge).
(11)	It rests with him to impose penalties for
irregularities, and to give all necessary directions
within the Laws. He has full powers under Law
5 both before and during the game.
(12)	He must not allow anyone but the
players on to the playing enclosure during a
match except with his permission.
(13)	He must not allow any player to leave
the playing enclosure without his permission,
which should only be granted in special circum-
stances.
Any player who, through injury or any other
cause, has to retire during a match, shall
not resume playing in that match until he has
obtained the permission of the Referee.
(14)	The Referee must carry a whistle. He
shall blow it to indicate the beginning of a match
and the resumption of play after the half-time
interval. V/ith the exception of these occasions
the blowing of the whistle stops the match for
he time being, and the Referee shall blow it
only to indicate:—
(a)	a try
Laws of the Game
49
(b)	a goal,
(c)	that the ball has been touched down,
(fZ) that the ball has touched or crossed the
touch, touch-in-goal, or dead ball lines,
(e) a breach of Law or irregularity of play,
unless the non-offending team gains an
advantage,
(/) that he is awarding a penalty,
(g) a fair-catch (even though he has blown
for a knock-on or throw-forward),
(/?) that the ball or player carrying it has
touched him, unless he considers that
neither team has gained an advantage,
subject to Law 30,
(f) player hurt (immediately the ball next
becomes dead and subject to resumption
of play in not more than two minutes,
except as provided in Law 8),
(j)	danger, when continuation of play
would be dangerous,
If the tackled player plays in the proper spirit
and at once fairly releases the ball, very few
cases of danger can arise, but by holding on
for a short time danger may arise. In such
cases the Referee should award a penalty.
(k)	foul play or misconduct,
50
(I)	half-time or no-side, as soon as the
ball has become dead, except as the
result of a try or the award of a fair-
catch or penalty kick, when in each
case he shall allow play to proceed
until the ball next becomes dead,
(m) that a stoppage is necessary for any
other reason.
(15)	The Referee shall not whistle for an
infringement during play which is followed
closely by an advantage gained by the non-
offending team and for this purpose an advantage
must be either territorial or else such clear
possession of the ball as constitutes an obvious
tactical advantage. A mere opportunity to gain
an advantage is not sufficient. (Subject to Law
21 (Kick-off) and Law T1 (Touch).)
(16)	In case of any dispute relative to a try
or a kick at goal where it is possible that an
appeal may be made to the Union, the Referee
shall allow the kick at goal, so that if the kick is
successful, and the Union supports the appeal,
the goal points may be added.
When a kick at goal is allowed the match
should be re-started as though no dispute
had arisen.
LAW Functions of Touch Judges.
( ) Each Touch Judge must carry a flag and
Laws of the Game
51
remain in touch, one on each side of the ground,
except when a kick at goal from a try, free kick
or penalty kick is being taken, when both must
assist the Referee by standing, one at or behind
each of the goal posts of the defending team and
signalling by raising his flag to indicate that the
ball has gone over the cross bar.
(2)	He must hold up Ills flag when and where
the ball or the player carrying it has gone into
touch, and indicate which team is entitled to
bring the ball into play.
(3)	He must lower his flag immediately the
ball has been thrown in by a player of the team
entitled to do so, but if the ball is otherwise
thrown in, or if the player throwing in the ball
puts either foot into the field-of-play, he must
keep his flag raised, and the ball shall be thrown
in again.
(4)	He must signal when the ball, or the
player carrying it, has gone into touch-in-goal.
(5)	Any decision of a Touch Judge may be
over-ruled by the Referee.
(6)	A Touch Judge is under the control of the
Referee, who has power to deal with him as a
player under Law 34 (b) and (c).
52
Part III.—The Play in Detail.
LAW 12. Number of Players.
A match shall be played by not more than
fifteen players in each team. Any objection by
either team in connection with this Law may
be made at any time, but it shall not affect any
score previously obtained.
LAW 13. Mode of Play.
A match is started by a kick-off, after which
any player who is on-side may at any time catch,
kick, pick up or drop the ball, run with the ball,
fall on the ball or tackle an opponent holding the
ball, except as provided for in Laws 15 and 16.
The ball may be passed or knocked from one
player to another provided it is not passed,
knocked or thrown forward, by hand or arm.
LAW 14. Knock-on or Throw-forward or Re-
bound.
A knock-on occurs when the ball is propelled
by the hand or arm of a player in the direction
(f his opponents' dead ball line or when the
ball after striking the hand or arm of a player
travels in the said direction; provided that a
movement of the ball in the player's grasp
Laws of the Game
53
which is in the nature of a steadying or re-
adjustment of the ball within his possession
without loss of control is not a knock-on.
A throw-forward occurs when the ball in the
possession of a player is thrown in the direction
of his opponents' dead ball line. A throw-in
from touch is not a throw-forward. If the ball
is not passed forward but, after alighting on the
ground, it bounces forward, the pass is in order.
A rebound occurs when the ball after striking
any part of a player except his hand, arm or
leg from the knee to the toe inclusive, travels
in the direction of his opponents' dead ball
line, a rebound is not a knock-on.
In the case of a throw-forward or a knock-on
the ball shall be brought back to the place of
infringement and a scrummage formed there,
unless
(a)	a fair-catch has been allowed, or
(b)	the opposing team gains an advantage,
or
(c)	the ball is knocked on by a player who
is in the act of charging down the kick
of an opponent, or
(d)	the ball is unintentionally knocked-on
by a player who is in the act of catching
54
it direct from a kick and is recovered
by that player before it has touched the
ground or another player, or
(e)	the throw-forward or knock-on is, in
the opinion of the Referee, intentional,
in which case he shall award a penalty
kick at the place of infringement.
LAW 15. Scrummage.
A scrummage, which can only take place in the
field-of-play, may be either a loose scrummage
or a set scrummage:—
(a) a loose scrummage is formed by one or
more players from each team in physical
contact and on their feet closing round
the ball when it is on the ground between
them.
(6)	A set scrummage is formed by players
from each team closing up in readiness
to allow the ball to be put on the ground
between them in accordance with Law
15 (B).
(A) This part of Law 15 applies in the case of
every scrummage, whether it is a “ loose ”
scrummage or a “ set ” scrummage.
It is illegal for any player, except as provided
by Law 26 (b),
(a) to return the ball into a scrummage by
hand or foot, or
Laws of the Game
55
(£>) while the ball is in a scrummage, to
handle it or pick it up by hand or
legs, or
(c) intentionally to cause the scrummage to
collapse, or
(d)	intentionally to fall or kneel in the
scrummage, or
(e)	while lying on the ground to interfere
in any way with the ball in a scrummage,
and not do his best to roll away from
the ball.
(B) This part of Law 15 applies only in the case
of a “ set ” scrummage, i.e., one ordered or
taken in accordance with the Laws.
In this part of Law 15, the terms “first,”
“ second,” “ third,” etc., when applied to
a player, or a foot, in either front row of
a scrummage refer to the position of such
player or foot (the feet not being crossed or
otherwise moved from their normal position)
counting from the side on which the ball is
being, or has been put in; and the term “the
middle line” means an imaginary line on the
ground directly beneath the line formed by the
junction of the shoulders of the players
forming the respective front rows.
56
Forming a Scrummage.
(1)	It is illegal for either team wilfully to delay
the formation of a scrummage.
(2)	Every scrummage shall be formed as nearly
as practicable to the place of infringement
and so that the middle line is as nearly as
practicable parallel to the goal lines until
the ball has been put in.
(3)	Each front row of a scrummage shall be
formed by three players, and it is illegal
for any player at any time to add himself
to a front row so formed. Subject to this
any number of players may form a
scrummage. The head of a player in a front
row shall not be next to the head of a
player of the same team.
(4)	(a) The players of each front row shall
bind firmly and continuously while the
ball is being put in and while it is in the
scrummage. Neither arm of the second
player, nor the inner arms of the first
and third players may be free. The
second player may bind either over or
under the arms of the first and third
players, but in either case he must bind
firmly around the bodies of these
players at or below the level of the
armpits. The first and third players
Laws of the Game
57
must bind the second player in like
manner.
(/>) All other players in a scrummage must
bind with at least one arm and hand
around the body of another player of
the same team.
(5)	It is illegal for a front row to form down
some distance from its opponents and
rush against them. Such dangerous play
also infringes Law 34 (a) (4).
Putting the Ball into the Scrummage.
(6)	The team not responsible for the stoppage
of play shall put in the ball. A stoppage
may be caused without any infringement by
either team. Only when in doubt as to the
responsibility, the Referee shall order the
ball to be put in by the team in whose
half of the ground the scrummage is to be
formed.
(7)	The ball shall be put in without delay as
soon as the two front rows have closed
together.
(8)	The player putting in the ball shall
{a) stand one yard from the scrummage
and midway between the two front
rows.
58
(b') Hold the ball with both hands midway
between the two front rows at a level
midway between his knee and his
ankle and from that position in a
single movement put the ball in
straight along the middle line at
moderate speed so that it first touches
the ground immediately beyond the
nearer first player.
(9)	It is illegal for any player by placing or
advancing or raising a foot or feet, or in
any other way, to prevent the ball from
being put into the scrummage, or first
touching the ground in the required
manner.
(10)	The ball shall be put into the scrummage
again if it enters and comes out at either
end of the tunnel or if, on its way out, it
passes between the first and second feet
of either front row.
Heeling from the Scrummage.
(11)	It is illegal for any foot of either front row
to be raised or advanced until
(g) in the case of either first foot, the ball
has passed that foot, or
(ft) in the case of either second foot and of
the nearer third foot, the ball has been
Laws of the Game
59
touched by or passed the further third
foot or cither fourth foot, or
(c) in the case of the further third foot and
the feet beyond, the ball has left the
hands of the player putting it in.
(12)	It is illegal for any player of either front
row while heeling or attempting to heel the
ball or at any time during the scrummage
to
(a)	advance both his feet beyond the
middle line, or
(£) raise both his feet off the ground at
the same time, or
(c) swing both feet together in any
direction, or
(d) lower or twist his body so as to get
nearer to the ball, or in a manner
liable to cause the scrummage to
collapse.
Penalty:—For any infringement of Law 15 a
penalty kick shall be awarded. If a player
repeatedly infringes, the Referee MUST deal
with him under Law 35 (C).
LAW 16. Tackle.
A tackle occurs when the holder of the ball in
the field-of-play is held by one or more
H5
60
players of the opposing team so that while
he is so held the ball comes in contact with the
ground, or there is a moment when he cannot
pass or play the ball in any other manner.
(a)	When a player is tackled but not
brought to the ground, he must
IMMEDIATELY release the ball.
(6) The tackled player, if lying on the
ground, must IMMEDIATELY release
the ball, roll away from it, and get up
before playing it.
(c) It is illegal for any player
(i)	to prevent a tackled player from
releasing the ball, or getting up
after he has released it, or
(ii)	to attempt to pick up the ball
before a tackled player lying on the
ground has released it, or
(iii)	while lying on the ground after a
tackle to interfere with the ball in
any way.
i provisions are subject to
Law 26 (d).
Penalty: Penalty kick awarded at the place
ot infringement.
If a player carrying the ball is thrown or
knocked over, but not tackled, he may
nevertheless pass the ball or get up and
Laws of the Game
61
continue his run, even though the ball has
touched the ground.
See italicised words in Law 10 (14) (j).
LAW 17. Lying on the Ball.
A player lying on the ground with the ball in
his possession, or in such a way that he prevents
an opponent from gaining possession of it, must
IMMEDIATELY play the ball or get up or roll
away from the ball.
Penalty:—Penalty Kick awarded at the place
of infringement.
LAW 18. Off-side.
(1) When the ball is in play, except in a
scrummage or in a line-out, a player is
off-side if the ball has been kicked or
touched or is being carried by one of his
own team behind him.
It is illegal for a player who is off-side
under this part of Law 18 and who has not
become on-side under Law 19, to
(a)	play the ball (except when receiving an
unintentional throw forward), or
(b)	obstruct an opponent in any way, or
(c)	approach or wilfully remain within
ten yards of an opponent waiting to
play the ball.
It is illegal for any player to shout
62
“all-on-side,” or words to that effect,
when any member of his team is ofl-side.
Penalty:—Penalty kick awarded at the place
of infringement, or, at the option of the non-
offending team, a scrummage at the place where
the ball was last played by the offending team.
If such latter place is in in-goal, the scrummage
shall be formed five yards from the goal line
on a line through the place parallel to the
touch lines. When a penalty kick is awarded
for illegally shouting from in touch, the kick shall
be awarded ten yards from the touch line, on a
line through the place parallel to the goal lines.
When an off-side player is unable to avoid
being touched by the ball, or by a player carrying
it, he shall be deemed to be “ accidentally off-
side ” and a scrummage shall be formed at the
place where he was so touched.
(2)	While a scrummage is forming or is taking
place, a player is off-side if
(<?) he enters a scrummage from his
opponents’ side, or
(6) being in front of the ball and not in
the scrummage he fails to retire behind
the ball without delay, or
(c) not being in the scrummage, he
advances either foot in front of the
ball in the scrummage.
Laws of the Game
63
A player is not in a scrummage unless he is
binding with either arm a player of his own
team in the scrummage.
Penalty:—Penalty kick awarded at the place of
infringement.
(3)	While a line-out is taking place in accord-
ance with Law 27 a player is off-side if
(a)	before the ball has touched a player
or the ground he wilfully remains or
advances with either foot in front of a
line at right angles to the touch line
through the place where the ball went
into touch, unless he advances solely
in the act of jumping for the ball, or
(b)	after the ball has touched a player or
the ground he, not being in possession
of the ball, advances with either foot in
front of the ball, unless he is lawfully
tackling or attempting to tackle an
opponent who is participating in the
line-out. Such tackle or attempt to
tackle must, however, start from his
own side of the ball.
It is not intended that a player before throwing
in the ball should be obliged to wait until
players of his own team have returned to or
behind the line-out, and a player is not to be
64
deemed as wilfully remaining under Law 18
(3) (“) provided he so returns without delay.
PenaltyPenalty kick awarded at the place of
infringement or ten yards from the touch line
on a line at right angles to the touch line through
the place where the ball went into touch, which-
ever is the farther distance from the touch line.
LAW 19. On-side.
(1) A player who is off-side under Law 18 (1),
including a player to whom Law 18 (1) (c)
applies, becomes on-side
(a) when one of his own team has run in
front of him carrying the ball, or
(b)	when one of his own team has run in
front of him after having kicked the
ball when behind him. Such kicker
must be in the field-of-play or in
In-goal to put the off-side player
on-side, though he is not debarred from
previously following up in touch or in
touch-in-goal, or
(c)	when he has retired behind the player
of his own team who last played the ball.
(2) A player who is off-side under Law 18 (1),
other than a player to whom Law 18 (1) (c)
applies, becomes on-side
(fl) when an opponent carrying the ball has
rUn five yards’ or
( ) when the ball has been kicked or passed
Laws of the Game
65
by an opponent, or
(c)	when an opponent has INTENTION-
ALLY touched the ball, provided such
opponent does not catch or gather it.
LAW 20. Charging and Obstruction.
It is illegal for any player
(a) who is running for the ball to charge
an opponent also running for the ball,
except shoulder to shoulder, or
(b)	who is not running for the ball to
charge or obstruct an opponent not
holding the ball, or
(c)	who is overtaking an opponent also
running for the ball to push him from
behind, or
(d)	to hold an opponent who is not carrying
the ball.
Pulling any part of the clothing of an opponent
should be dealt with as holding under this
Law and under Law 34 (a) (2). Players
should, however, not be penalised for
“ holding ” if they drag away a player lying
on the ground in close proximity to the ball
but not in a scrummage.
(e)	with the ball in his possession after it
has come out from a scrummage or a
line-out to attempt to force his way
66
through players of his own teain in
front of him, or
(f)	who is off-side wilfully to run or stand
in front of another player of his own
team who is in possession of the ball,
thereby preventing an opponent from
reaching the latter player, or
(g)	being an outside player in a scrummage,
to move outwards when the ball has
been obtained by his team and is
emerging from the back of the scrum-
mage, thereby preventing an opponent
from advancing round the scrummage,
or
(7i) who is not himself running for the ball
wilfully to charge or obstruct an
opponent who has just kicked the ball.
Penalty:—
(1) For any infringement of (Z?) and (d) of
this Law the penalty provisions of
Law 34 (a) and (b) apply.
(2) For other infringements:—
Penalty kick awarded at the place of
infringement; provided that in the case
of infringement of (/z) the opposing
team shall have the option of taking the
kick at the place of infringement or at
the place where the ball alights.
(f the ball alights in touch the mark shall be
Laws of the Game
67
at a place ten yards from the touch line
on a line parallel to the goal lines through
the place where it crossed the touch line.
If the ball alights within ten yards of the
touch line the mark shall be at a place ten
yards from the touch line on a line parallel
to the goal lines through the place where
it alighted.
If the ball alights in in-goal, touch-in-goal,
or over or on the dead ball line, the mark
shall be at a place five yards from the goal
line on a line parallel to the touch line
through the place where it crossed the goal
line or ten yards from the touch line whichever
is the greater.
LAW 21. Kick-off.
Kick-off is a place kick taken from the centre of
the half-way line or a drop kick taken at or
from behind the centre of the half-way line.
(a)	A place kick must be taken from the
centre of the half-way line, or after an
unconverted try a drop kick must be
taken at or from behind the centre of
the half-way line: otherwise the ball
shall be kicked off again.
(Z>) The ball must reach the ten yards
line, unless first played by an opponent;
68
otherwise it shall be kicked off again or
a scrummage formed at the centre, at
the opponents’ option. If it reaches the
ten yards line and is then blown back
play shall continue.
(c) The kicker’s team must all be behind
the ball; otherwise a scrummage shall
be formed at the centre.
(d)	The opposing team must not stand
within ten yards of the half-way line;
otherwise the ball shall be kicked off
again.
(e)	The opposing team must not charge
until the ball has been kicked; other-
wise the ball shall be kicked off again.
(/) If the ball pitches in touch, touch-in-
goal or over or on the dead ball line,
the opposing team may accept the kick,
have the ball kicked off again, or have
a scrummage formed at the centre.
Law 10 (15) as to advantage does not apply
in the event of any of the foregoing not being
complied with.
LAW 22. Drop-out.
A drop-out is a drop kick taken by the defending
team after a touch down or after the ball has
touched or crossed the touch-in-goal or dead
ball line.
Laws of the Game
69
(a) A drop kick must be taken from any-
where on or behind the 25 yards line;
otherwise the ball shall be dropped out
again.
(£) The ball must reach the 25 yards line;
otherwise the opposing team may have
it dropped out again, or have a scrum-
mage formed at the centre of the
25 yards line. If it reaches the 25 yards
line and is then blown back, play shall
continue.
(c) All the kicker’s team must be behind
the ball when kicked; otherwise a
scrummage shall be formed at the
centre of the 25 yards line.
(r/) The opposing team must not charge
over the 25 yards line; otherwise the
ball shall be dropped out again.
(e) If the ball pitches in touch, the opposing
team may accept the kick, or have the
ball dropped out again, or have a
scrummage formed at the centre of the
25 yards line.
Law 10 (15) as to advantage should be applied
in the event of any of the foregoing not being
complied with.
70
LAW 23. Free Kick.
A free kick is a kick allowed for a fair-catch.
It may be taken by a place kick, drop-kick
or punt.
(a)	A free kick must be taken at or behind
the mark on a line through the mark
parallel to the touch lines; the kick
must be taken by the player making
the fair-catch and the ball must reach a
line through the mark parallel to the
goal lines, unless first played by an
opponent.
(b)	In the case of a place kick, the ball
must not be handled by the kicker
after it has been placed on the ground.
(c)	In every case the kicker’s team
other than the placer for a place kick
must be behind the ball when the kick
is taken, and may follow up.
The opposing team may come up to,
but not beyond, a line through the
mark parallel to the goal lines, and
may charge subject to the following
conditions:—
1- In the case of a place kick, as
soon as the ball has been placed
on the ground.
Laws of the Game
71
2. In the case of a drop-kick or
punt, as soon as the kicker begins
his run or offers to kick.
When a free-kick has been awarded if
players of rhe opposing ream, having charged
fairly, prevent the kick from being taken, the
kick is void and play should be recommenced
only by a scrummage at the mark, the
opposing team having the right to put in the
ball.
If the mark is in in-goal it shall be deemed to
be on the goal line and the ball must cross
that line unless first played by an opponent:
otherwise the kick must be taken again.
Penalty:—
(i) For infringements by the kicker’s
team—a scrummage at the mark.
(ii) For infringements by the opposing team
—charge disallowed; if the kick has
been taken, the kicker shall be allowed
the option of another kick under the
original conditions without the charge.
Law 10 (15) as to advantage should be applied
in the event of any of the foregoing not being
complied with.
n
If a player who has made a fair-catch is injured
in so doing and is unable to take the kick
within two minutes, the kick is void, and a
scrummage shall be formed at the maik.
If the mark is in in-goal, the scrummage
shall be awarded five yards from the goal
line on a line through the mark parallel to the
touch lines.
When a player is placing the ball neither he
nor the kicker shall wilfully do anything which
may lead the opposing team to charge before
the ball has been placed on the ground; in the
event of either doing so, the charge shall not
be disallowed.
LAW 24. Penalty Kick.
A penalty kick is a kick awarded to the non-
offending team by reason of an infringement
of the Laws by their opponents. It may be
taken by a place kick, drop-kick or punt.
K scrummage may be taken at the mark by the
non-offending team in lieu of a penalty kick.
When a penalty kick is taken the following
provisions shall apply
(a) \ penalty kick must be taken at or
behind the mark, on a line through
the mark parallel to the touch lines.
The kick may be taken by any player
Laws of the Game
73
of the team and for a place kick the
kicker may place the ball.
The kick must be taken without undue
delay.
(Jy) The ball may be kicked in any direction
but may not be played again by the
kicker until it has been played by
another player. If, however, the kicker
has indicated to the Referee that he
intends to attempt a kick at goal, it is
illegal for him to kick the ball in any
other way.
(c) In every case the kicker’s team, other
than the placer for a place kick, must
be behind the ball until it has been
kicked.
(d)	All players of the opposing team must
retire without delay to or behind a line
parallel to the goal lines and ten yards
from the mark, or to their own goal
line if nearer to the mark, and there
remain motionless with their hands by
their sides until the ball has been
kicked.
(e)	It is illegal for any player of the oppos-
ing team to prevent the kick from being
taken or to interfere with the kicker
in any way while he is taking the kick.
74
Penalty:— . ,
(i) For an infringement by the kicker s
team—a scrummage at the place where
the ball was kicked, subject to Law
33 (*>)•
(ii) For an infringement by the opposing
team a penalty kick ten yards in front
of the mark or on the goal line, which-
ever is the nearer, on a line through
the mark parallel to the touch lines.
Law 10 (15) as to advantage should be applied
in the event of any of the foregoing not being
complied with.
LAW 25. Place Kick at Goal after a Try.
After a try has been scored the scoring team
shall have the right to take a place kick at goal on
a line parallel to the touch lines through the place
where the try was obtained but need not take the
kick. The kicker may place the ball.
(a)	All the kicker’s team must be behind the
ball when kicked.
(b)	The opposing team must be behind the
goal line until the kicker begins his run
or offers to kick when they may charge
or jump with a view to touching the ball.
(c)	The kick must be taken without undue
delay.
Laws of the Game
75
Penalty:—
(i)	For an infringement by the kicker’s
team the kick shall be disallowed.
(ii)	For an infringement by the opposing
team the charge shall be disallowed or,
if the kick has been unsuccessfully
taken the kicker shall have the option of
another kick under the original con-
ditions without the charge.
Neither the kicker nor any player placing the
ball for him shall wilfully do anything which
may lead the opposing team to charge
prematurely; in the event of either doing so
the charge shall not be disallowed.
LAW 26. Try.
A try is obtained by the act of an attacking
player first grounding the ball in his opponents'
in-goal.
A touch-down is obtained by the act of a
defending player first grounding the ball in
his own in-goal.
A try is scored in the following cases:—
(a) If a player passes, knocks or kicks the
ball into his own in-goal, and an
opponent first grounds it.
H6
%
(h} If a team in a scrummage pushes the
other team over the latter’s goal line
and first grounds the ball in in-goal.
If the defending team grounds it, a
touch-down shall be awarded.
(c) If a player grounds the ball in his
opponents’ in-goal and picks it up
again, a try shall be awarded where it
was first grounded.
(d)	If the momentum of a player when
held in possession of the ball carries
him into his opponents’ in-goal and
he first there grounds the ball, even
though it has touched the ground in
the field-of-play.
The Referee shall award a try if, in his opinion,
one would undoubtedly have been obtained but
for the unfair play or unlawful interference of
the defending team. Such try shall be awarded
between the posts. (See also penalty under
Law 34 (g) and (5).)
A try may be scored by a player who is in
touch or in touch-in-goal provided he is not
carrying the ball.
When the Referee cannot decide which team
first grounded the ball in in-goal, a scrummage
shall be formed five yards from the goal line
opposite the place where the ball was grounded
and the attacking team shall put in the ball.
Laws of the Game
77
LAW 27. Touch.
(a) The ball is in touch
(i)	when, not being in the possession of a
player, it touches or crosses a touch
line, or
(ii)	when, being in the possession of a
player, it or the player carrying it
touches a touch line or the ground
beyond it.
If the ball crosses a touch line and is then
blown back it is in touch at the place where
it first crossed the line.
A player may be in touch and yet play the ball
with his foot if the ball is not in touch.
(b)	The ball must be brought into play by an
opponent of the player whom it last touched
in the field-of-play, unless such player
carrying the ball is physically forced into
touch by an opponent, in which case it shall
be brought into play by the player so forced,
or by one of his team.
In the event of the Touch Judge being
unable to decide which team should bring
the ball into play, the Referee, if being
himself in doubt, shall order the ball to be
brought into play by the team in whose
half of the ground it has gone into touch.
78
(c)	The ball must be brought into play at the
place where it went into touch by throwing
it into the field-of-play so as to touch a
player or the ground at least five yards
from and at right angles to the touch line.
If thrown in otherwise the opposing team
shall have the right, at its option, to throw in
the ball or to take a scrummage. If on the
second occasion, the ball is not thrown in
correctly a scrummage shall be formed.
Any scrummage so taken or ordered shall
be formed ten yards from the place where
it went into touch on a line parallel to
the goal lines.
Law 10 (15) as to advantage does not apply
in the event of the foregoing not being complied
with.
A player throwing the ball in from touch
must not put either foot into the field-of-play,
otherwise the ball shall be thrown in again.
00 Until the ball has been thrown in and has
touched a player or the ground as provided
under (c), it is illegal for any player partici-
pating in the line-out wilfully to
(i) be off-side, contrary to Law 18 (3) (a),
or
(ii) push, charge, shoulder or bind with
Laws of the Game
79
or in any way hold another player of
either team, or
(iii)	use any other player as a prop to enable
him to jump for the ball.
(e)	After the ball has touched a player or the
ground it is illegal for any player partici-
pating in the line-out to
(i)	be off-side, contrary to Law 18 (3)
(Z?), or
(ii) hold, push, shoulder or obstruct an
opponent not in possession of the ball,
or
(iii)	charge an opponent otherwise than in
an attempt to tackle him or to secure
possession of the ball.
If the ball in a line-out becomes unplayable,
otherwise than as the result of an infringe-
ment for which a penalty is prescribed, the
Referee shall order a scrummage.
Penalty:—In the event of an infringement
of (d) or (e) or of Law 35 a penalty kick shall
be awarded at the place of infringement or ten
yards from the touch line on a line through that
place at right angles to the touch line, whichever
is the farther distance from the touch line.
LAW 28. Wilful Throwing into Touch, etc.
If a player wilfully knocks or throws the ball
80
from the field-of-play into touch, ouch-in-goal
or over his own dead ball line, the opposing
team shall be awarded a penalty kick at the place
where such knock or throw occurred.
LAW 29. Touch-in-Goal.
The ball is in touch-in-goal:—
(a) When, not being in the possession of a
player, it touches a corner post, or
touches or crosses a touch-in-goal
line.
(fi) When the ball in a player’s possession
or a player carrying it touches a corner
post or touches a touch-in-goal line
or the ground beyond it.
The flag shall not be regarded as part of the
corner post.
LAW 30. Ball, etc., Touching Referee.
If the ball or a player carrying it touches the
Referee in the field-of-play a scrummage shall
be ordered at that place, unless the Referee
considers that neither team has gained an
advantage in which case he shall allow play to
proceed.
When a scrummage has been ordered the team
oi the player who is carrying the ball or last
played the ball shall put in the ball.
Laws of the Game
81
If the ball in a player’s possession or a player
carrying it touches the Referee in that player’s
in-goal, a touch-down shall be awarded; and if
the ball, while in play in in-goal at either end,
but not held by a player, touches the Referee,
a Touch Judge, or a spectator, a touch-down
shall be awarded, provided that a touch-down
would otherwise have been obtained, or the ball
would have gone dead. If the issue is in doubt
when the ball touches a spectator, a touch-down
shall be awarded the visiting team, provided they
are the defending team.
If a player crosses his opponents’ goal line
with the ball in his possession and, before
grounding it, touches the Referee, a try shall be
awarded at that place.
If the ball while in play in in-goal at either
end, but not held by a player, touches the
Referee, a Touch Judge or spectator, a try shall
be awarded at that place, provided an attacking
player would otherwise have scored it. If the
issue is in doubt when the ball touches a spec-
tator, a try shall be awarded at that place to the
visiting team, provided they are the attacking
team.
LAW 31. Ball Held in In-goal.
If a player in possession of the ball in in-goal
82
is so held that he cannot ground the ball a
scrummage shall be formed five yards from the
line opposite the place where he was held and
the attacking team shall put in the ball.
LAW 32. Taking Ball Over Goal Line.
If a defending player heels, kicks, passes,
knocks or carries the ball over his own goal
line and it there becomes dead except in the case
where a try is obtained or as provided for in
Law 26 (b) or in Law 28 a scrummage shall be
formed five yards from the goal line opposite
the place from which it was kicked, passed,
knocked or carried back and the attacking team
shall put in the ball.
A drop-out shall be awarded if as the result
of a kick, pass or knock by an attacking player
the ball on its way touches a defender who does
not wilfully attempt to stop (otherwise than in an
attempt to nullify a dropped goal), catch or kick
it and crosses his goal line and (a) is there made
dead by a defender, or (b) crosses the dead ball
line or touch-in-goal line.
LAW 33. Infringements in In-goal, etc.
The Referee must disallow a try and award a
toueh-down if in his opinion a try would un-
doubtedly not have been gained but for unfair
Laws of the Game
83
play or unlawful interference on the part of the
attacking team.
Subject to Law 26 or Law 34 for infringements
in in-goal, the penalty shall be
(a)	for an offence by the attacking team—a
touch-down, or
(Z?) for an offence by the defending team—a
scrummage five yards from the goal
line opposite the place of infringement.
LAW 34. Foul Play, Misconduct.
The following arc prohibited:—
(a) Foul play, including:—
(1) Wilful hacking, tripping, or
striking.
(2)	Wilfully holding a player not in
possession of the ball.
(3)	Illegal tackling (including early and
late tackling and dangerous tack-
ling).
(4)	Illegal pushing, charging or
obstructing.
(5)	Wilfully causing a scrummage to
collapse.
(6)	Misconduct while the ball is in play.
84
Penalty:—The Referee shall either order the
offending player off the playing enclosure or else
caution him and, in addition, shall award a
penalty kick at the place of infringement.
(Subject to Law 20 (/:).)
For a second offence the Referee MUST order
the player oft'.
If the foul play or misconduct prevents a try
which, in the opinion of the Referee, would
probably have been scored he shall award a
penalty try between the posts.
(c) Misconduct, including unlawful inter-
ference, while the ball is out of play.
Penalty:—The Referee shall either order the
offending player off the playing enclosure or else
caution him and shall, in addition, award a
penalty kick which may be taken at any place
where the ball would next have been brought
into play, if the infringement had not occurred.
If such a place is on the touch line, the kick shall
be taken at a point ten yards from such place on a
line parallel to the goal line.
For a second offence the Referee MUST order
the player off.
If ordered °^’ un^er the provisions of Laws 34
or 35, the player shall take no further part in the
match m progress and the Referee MUST without
Laws of the Game
85
delay, send a report, naming the player and
describing the incident.
(a) to the Constituent Body to which the
player’s club is affiliated or allotted to;
(b)	to the Rugby Football Union if more
than one Constituent Body is concerned.
(c)	to the R.F.U. if the club of the player
is not affiliated or allotted to a Con-
stituent Body;
(<7) to the International Board in Inter-
national matches.
(In each case forwarding a copy of his
report to his own Referee Society);
(e) to the R.F.U. if he himself does not
belong to a Referee Society.
LAW 35. Repeated Infringement of the Laws.
(a) Where a player infringes for a second time
any of the provisions of Law 34—the
Referee MUST order the player off the
playing enclosure.
(Z>) Where a player repeatedly infringes any of
the provisions of Law 20 the Referee MUST
order him off the playing enclosure.
(c) Where a player repeatedly infringes any of
the Laws other than Laws 20 and 34 the
Referee MUST caution him and MUST in
86
the event of any further repetition of the
infringement in respect of which the caution
was given, send a report naming the player
and the circumstances to the Constituent
Body having jurisdiction over the Club to
which the player belongs.
(See last paragraph of Law 34.)
LAW 36. Waste of Time.
Waste of time caused intentionally by any
player, or by a team, including the wilful
infringement of any Law or Laws for which the
penalty is only a scrummage, is illegal.
Penalty:—Penalty kick awarded at the place
of infringement.
Repeated infringements MUST be dealt with
under Law 35.
LAW 37. Irregularities not Provided for.
When a Law is broken or any irregularity of
play not otherwise provided for occurs, and an
advantage is gained therefrom by the opposing
team, the Referee shall not blow his whistle but
shall allow, the match to continue; but if no
advantage is gained by such team, and if no
other procedure is provided, the ball shall be
taken back to the place where the breach of the
aw or irregularity occurred and a scrummage
formed there.
Laws of the Game
87
APPEALS
on Referees’ Decisions on Points of Law
(Law 10 (16))
Clubs are requested to notice that when they
desire to make an appeal on points which have
occurred in a particular match, before forwarding
the Appeal to the Secretary of the Rugby Football
Union the statement should be submitted to the
Referee for his views to be expressed on it.
89
NOTES ON THE LAWS OF THE GAME
As approved by the
International Rugby Football Board
1959
FOREWORD
NOTE.—The lines in the margin direct attention to
additions to, or alterations in, the 1958 version
of the “Notes on the Laws”.
These Notes do not include references to all the
Laws of the Game, but to such only as require
comment either to answer a specific query
addressed to the International Board, or to
emphasise a point of practical importance to
players and Referees.
These Notes will be of use to referees in
enabling them to apply the laws in a consistent
and uniform way and to players also in helping
them to understand the Laws and the reasons for
the Referee’s decisions.
H7
90
notes on the laws of the game
LAW 1.1
VField-of-Play.
LAW 3. J
As the goal posts and goal lines are in-goal,
a try or touch-down can be obtained on the
goal line or if the ball is in contact with the
ground and the goal post.
LAW 2.
Dead.
A tackle does not make the ball dead.
Fair-catch.
| A fair-catch must be made cleanly.
If the catcher raises the toe of one foot
from the ground in a manner visible to the
Referee, he has made a valid mark, but it must
be claimed.
When a fair-catch is obtained and claimed
the Referee must award the free kick even
though the catcher wishes to play on.
See also Note on Law 23.
A fair-catch cannot be made from a rebound.
See also Note on Law 14 (c).
Notes on the Laws of the Game
91
Grounding the Ball.
If the player has only one hand on the ball
this hand must be in contact with the upper
surface of the ball so that a downward pressure
can be exerted.
Kick.
Propelling the ball with the heel is not a
kick.
Knock-on.
If a player receiving a pass or catching a
bouncing ball or picking up the ball from the
ground, attempts to secure possession with both
hands and, while not doing so cleanly, does not
lose effective control of the ball in his grasp, it
is not a knock-on.
If a player attempts with one hand and the
ball goes forward from that hand, whatever the
distance it is a knock-on.
If a player attempts with both hands, and the
ball is propelled forward to a distance which
plainly involves the making of a second catch,
it is a knock-on. The distance cannot be
defined, but the player’s action in stretching out
to make the second catch will usually be
unmistakeable.
92
If a player attempts to intercept an opponent’s
pass, even with both bands, and the ball goes
forward it is always a knock-on.
If a player in a line-out jumping for the ball
does not catch cleanly and the ball goes forward
it is always a knock-on.
See also Notes on Law 14 (c) and (d).
LAW 10. Functions of Referees.
Stoppages for injuries must not exceed two
minutes; a broken or untied bootlace is not
sufficient reason for stopping play.
When the Referee has definite reason to
believe a player is feigning injury, and only in
such circumstances, he should order him to be
removed immediately to the touch-line and then
allow play to proceed forthwith.
The Referee should note that in all matches
extra time must be allowed for injuries unless
there are exceptional or compelling reasons to
the contrary or the Referee has reason to believe
that a player is feigning injury.
Notes on the Laws of the Game
93
The Referee should not permit a player who
has retired on account of injury to resume until
the ball has become dead.
The Board has ruled that a team may not
leave the field for the purpose of changing
jerseys.
In applying Law 10 (15) the Referee should
note that the “ advantage law ” is now applicable
to every phase of play except the kick-off and the
throw-in from touch and that he is given a wide
discretion as to what constitutes an advantage
and is not limited to a territorial advantage,
e.g., possession from a scrummage may often be
of greater advantage than a penalty would be;
a developed passing movement may be an
advantage even though no ultimate territorial
advantage is gained; a line-out nearer to the
non-offending team’s goal-line than the place of
infringement is generally an advantage as com-
pared to a scrummage in front of that team’s
goal posts. The alternative to a territorial
advantage must be definite and not merely an
opportunity to gain an advantage. The referee
is the sole judge of whether an advantage has
been gained.
94
A player ordered off must be reported
immediately:—
(1) In International Matches to the Union
concerned, who will forward the report
to the International Board.
(2) In all other matches in accordance with
Law 34.
LAW 14. Knock-on.
(c) The Referee must be satisfied that the
player is “in the act of charging down” i.e., he
must be advancing towards the kicker and he
must not be attempting to catch the ball.
A fair-catch can be made from a knock-on
under (c) of this Law.
(J) The words “ direct from kick ” mean
that the ball travels without touching the ground
or another player. If the ball in its flight
touches a goal post or the cross bar, but touches
neither ground nor player, it has travelled direct
from kicker to catcher.
. Any player of either team, including the
be the catcher for the purpose of
(d) of this Law.
Notes on the Laws of the Game
95
The catcher direct from a kick may knock-on
more than once (unintentionally) without
infringement so long as he recovers the ball
before it has touched the ground or another
player.
LAW 15. Scrummage.
LAW 15 (A) (c).
In the case of a loose scrummage if a player
jumps on top of other players in the scrummage
the Referee should award a penalty kick under
this Law.
LAW 15 (B)—Preamble:
The Referee should note that the following
words in the italicised part of the preamble viz.
“(the feet not being crossed or otherwise moved
from their normal position)” mean that until any
foot is permitted by B (11) of this Law to be
raised or advanced, that foot must be kept in the
normal position and must not be placed across
another foot nor nearer to the mouth of the
tunnel than such normal position allows.
LAW 15 (B) (1).
When a team unduly delays the formation of
96
a scrummage by waiting for a particular player
to join it, the Referee should award a penalty it
the delay prejudices the other team.
LAW 15 (B) (2).
The Referee must ensure that the scrummage
is, as nearly as practicable, stationary at the place
of infringement and that the ball is put in at that
place.
If an infringement or stoppage for which the
correct decision is a scrummage takes place
so near a goal line that it is impossible for all
the players in the scrummage to be in the field-of-
play, the scrummage should nevertheless be
awarded at the place where the infringement
occurred, provided that in all such cases it
should be so formed that the line of the front
row of the defending team is in the field of play.
If an infringement or stoppage takes place
near a touch line, the Referee should ensure that
the whole of any ensuing scrummage is in the
field-of-play before the ball is put in?
LAW 15 (B) (3).
It is illegal for any player at any time to add
himself to the front row of a scrummage. The
Notes on the Laws of the Game
97
Referee should be careful to ensure that no
outside player of the second row of 3-4-1
formation adds himself to the front row.
LAW 15 (B) (6).
A player having chosen the side on which he
wishes to put the ball in cannot alter his decision.
In the case of a scrummage which does not
follow an infringement the Referee must attempt
to fix the responsibility for the stoppage of play,
e.g., where without any infringement, play cannot
be carried on after a player has been tackled
or after a rush has been stopped by a player
falling on the ball. In many such cases the
Referee will find that the defending team is
responsible for the stoppage of play and that
the attacking team should put in the ball.
A team must put in the ball when ordered to
do so. ™
LAW 15 (B) (7).
The Referee has no authority to permit
delay in putting in the ball because a player
has not succeeded in getting his head down in
the scrummage.
98
The Referee should award a penalty kick if he
is satisfied that the delay by one team in putting
in the ball is deliberate and prejudices the other
team.
LAW 15 (B) (8).
The words “from that position in a single
movement ” mean that only the forward move-
ment of the ball with the hands is permissible,
i.e., the “ pendulum ” movement of the hands
holding the ball is no longer permitted. Any
movement of the ball with the hands amounting
to a feint is illegal.
The words “ moderate speed ” mean that the
ball should be put in at the speed that is
necessary, neither more nor less, to give it
enough impetus to reach the place at which it
must touch the ground.
The “ nearer first player ” means the loose
head front row forward on the side on which
the ball is being put in.
Beyond ’ means that the ball must travel at
least the width of the first player’s shoulders
before it touches the ground.
Notes on the Laws of the Game
99
LAW 15 (B) (9).
The Referee must enforce strictly the laws
against premature advancing and raising of feet
in the front row, particularly where such in-
fringements prevent the ball from entering the
scrummage.
LAW 15 (B) (9) and (11).
The Referee should ensure that all players in
the front row keep their feet sufficiently far back.
Both second feet and the nearer third foot must
be placed sufficiently far back to allow the tunnel
to be left clear. The nearer fourth foot or the
further third foot may be placed up to but not on
the middle line, but neither foot may be placed
nearer the mouth of the tunnel until the ball has
left the hands of the player putting it in.
See also the note to Law 15 (5) Preamble.
LAW 15 (B) (10).
When the ball has come out of the scrummage
in any of the ways indicated by the arrows in
the following diagrams, or if it passes between
the feet of the outside players of either front
row on the side on which it has been put
100
in (no matter what subsequently happens to it),
it must be put in again.
The Referee must NOT order the ball to be put
in again unless it has come out as indicated in the
diagrams.
When the Referee orders the ball to be put
in again it must be put in by a player of the
same team that was first entitled so to do. The
Referee has no power to apply Law 15 B (6) in
such circumstances.
It is illegal (Law 36) for any front row player
intentionally to kick the ball out of the scrummage
and the Referee should inflict penalties for this
offence.
LAW 15 (B) (11). (a).
The first foot of either front row may follow
the ball into the scrummage provided that it
does so without infringing this Law or Law 15
(B) (9) and (12).
See also the note to Law 15 (B) Preamble.
It is illegal for the further third foot or the
nearer fourth foot to be placed or moved nearer
to the mouth of the tunnel than the normal
101
3-2-3

3-4-1
Coll enters
here--------@
102
position until the ball has left the hands of the
player putting it in.
LAW 16. Tackle.
A tackled player lying on the ground may not
put or push the ball away from him; he must do
no more than release it, i.e., take his hands away
from the ball.
After releasing the ball he must also immedi-
ately move his body away from it. He may do
this by getting up.
No player in the act of getting up after a
tackle may play the ball while one knee is still
on the ground. Both knees and the rest of his
body except his supporting foot or feet must be
off the ground before he plays the ball, but it is
not necessary for him to “ stand upright.”
The Referee should be strict in not allowing
the ball to be picked up after a tackle if players
have already formed a loose scrummage around
^2)1 definition of loose scrummage in
LAW 18. Off-side.
A player can be off-side in his own In-goal.
See Note on Law 33 re infringements in In-goal.
Notes on the Laws of the Game
103
In general play, i.e., except when a scrummage
or a line-out is taking place, a player is off-side
only if the ball has last been played by one of his
own team behind him and he remains off-side
until he becomes on-side in accordance with
Law 19. Such a player does not incur any
penalty because he is off-side; he is penalised
only if, being off-side, he takes part in play in one
of the ways specified in Law 18 (1).
On the other hand, when a scrummage or a
line-out is forming or is taking place a player is
penalised if he is off-side and because of that
alone.
LAW 18 (1) (b) and (c).
The Referee should whistle at once if an off-
side player following up a kick who cannot be
placed on-side by the kicker charges within 10
yards of an opponent waiting to receive the ball.
Delay may prove dangerous to the latter.
Where there is no opponent waiting to play
the ball but one arrives as the ball pitches, off-
side players who are near such opponent must
not obstruct or interfere with him in any way
whatsoever before they are put on-side in
104
| accordance with Law 19. If they do so they
I should be penalised at once.
LAW 18 (2) (b) and (c).
The Referee must specially note and enforce
in a strict and uniform manner the provisions of
(b) and (c) of Law 18 (2):—
Clause (b) applies only to the “ loiterers,”
those players who, in broken play, are in front
of the ball when a scrummage is forming,
or has been formed e.g., after a rush. Such
players must retire behind the ball without delay,
and the Referee must penalise any player who
delays.
Clause (c) applies to all players not in the
scrummage, including the “ loiterers ” who
have retired in obedience to (6). These players
may not in any circumstances advance either
foot beyond the ball while it is in the scrummage.
The Referee must enforce Clause (c) in every
case except where Law 10 (15) as to advantage
applies, and should note that no question arises
as to whether the player has advanced beyond
the ball intentionally or accidentally, or whether
or not he went back at once from the off-side
position, or whether or not he in fact obstructed
or interfered with an opponent.
Notes on the Laws of the Game
105
An outside player in a scrummage who is not
bound as defined in the italicised paragraph of
this Law must be penalised at once for off-side
(unless Law 10 (15) as to advantage applies) if he,
still being unbound, remains with either foot in
front of the ball while it is still in the scrummage.
A player who is retiring without delay as
required by Law 18 (2) (Zj) may take part in play
while so retiring only if Law 19 (on-side) applies
to him. If the player “loiters” the Referee
should order a penalty kick at once unless Law
10 (15) as to advantage applies.
LAW 18 (3) (a).
If a player jumps for but misses the ball and in
so doing crosses the “ line ” he is liable to be
treated as an off-side player unless he immediately
retires behind the ball, but an opportunity to
retire should be given.
LAW 18 (3) {a) and (£>)•
The Referee must also enforce Law 18 (3)
strictly. In that case, also, no question arises
as to the player’s intentions or as to whether
or not he remains in the off-side position. If
he is off-side he must be penalised at once.
unless Law 10 (15) as to advantage applies.
106
LAW 18 (2) and (3).
In connection with the Laws as to off-side
when a scrummage or a line-out is taking place,
the Referee should note:—
(r?) The line of the ball and the line through
the place where the ball went into touch
stretch continuously from touch-line
to touch-line and apply to all players.
(/>) After the ball has been correctly
brought into play a penalty for off-side
should not be given “ at once ” if the
non-offending team gains an advantage
or if it appears likely to gain an
advantage. If the expected advantage is
not gained, the penalty should in all
cases be awarded, even if the Referee is
obliged to bring play back for that
purpose to the place of infringement.
LAW 18. General.
When a player knocks on and an off-side
player of the same team next plays the ball a
penalty for off-side should be awarded only if the
off-side deprives the non-offending team of an
advantage.
A Penalty for off-side should in no case be
awarded if the non-offending team gains an
Notes on the Laws of the Game
107
advantage greater than the potential advantage
from the penalty kick. The Referee is the sole
judge of whether such an advantage has been
gained, but he should be sure that the advantage
is definite and not merely an opportunity to gain
an advantage (See Note on Law 10 (15)).
Under Law 18 (2) and (3) a penalty for off-
side should be awarded if the non-offending team
does not gain an advantage, even though the off-
side has no effect on the play.
LAW 19. On-side.
I A player who is off-side under Law 18 (1) (c)
cannot be put on-side by any action of his
opponents.
The Referee should note the following: —
(1) He should whistle at once for a
I penalty if there is no chance that a
player off-side under Law 18 (1) (c)
!! can be put on-side almost immediately
by a player of his own team (subject
to (4) below).
' (2) If there is a chance that such off-side
player will be put on-side, but while
“ waiting for results ” that player wil-
fully remains in the same position or
108
continues to advance, a penalty should
be awarded.
(3) An off-side player who is within 10
yards of the opponent waiting to play
the ball must retire and continue to do
so up to 10 yards until he is put
on-side.
(4) If due to no fault of his own but to
rapidity of events, a player of the
kicker’s team finds himself within 10
yards of a waiting opponent, he should
not be penalised if he does not inter-
fere with the opponent and begins at
once to retire to an on-side position.
Under Law 19 (2) (/?) an off-side player
(except on off-side under 18 (1) (c) ) becomes
on-side when an opponent has passed the ball.
The Referee should be careful to ensure that no
benefit from this provision is gained by
“ loiterers ” who do not return quickly enough
to their own side of a scrummage or a line-out
before the ball has emerged therefrom on their
opponents’ side.
LAW 20. Charging and Obstruction.
The Referee should note and apply the
intention of this Law as regards the penalties to
Notes on the Laws of the Game
109
be imposed for serious forms of obstruction.
If a player is guilty of charging or obstructing or
holding an opponent who is not carrying the ball
the Referee must either caution him or send him
off. If he offends a second time the Referee has
no alternative to sending him off. If the
obstruction prevents a try which probably would
otherwise have been scored a penalty try must be
awarded. The Referee should note that in the
case of these offences as in the case of foul play
contrary to Law 34, his duty to award a penalty
try depends on his view of the probabilities and
that he is here given a far wider discretion than
he is given by the term “ undoubtedly ” used in
Law 26.
The intention of the International Board is that
if the Referee has any doubt as to the balance of
probability he should give the benefit of the
doubt in favour of the non-offending team and
award the penalty try.
A player is guilty of obstruction under (g) of
this Law even if he maintains contact with the
scrummage. A player is also off-side if he ceases
to bind and moves outwards when the ball has
been obtained by his team and he is in front of
the ball in the scrummage—See Law 18 (2).
110
LAW 20 (J).
In the italicised paragraph of the Law the
words “not in the scrummage” apply to a
loose scrummage. Referees should be sure that
a loose scrummage has definitely been formed.
LAW 22. Drop Out.
If a player of the opposing team remains
beyond or crosses the 25 yards line for the
purpose of delaying or interfering with the
player who is about to drop out, the Referee
should award a penalty under Law 34 (c).
The provision of (d) of this Law is subject to
Law 34 (c) and also, to Law 10 (15) as to
advantage.
LAW 23. Free Kick.
If the charge is disallowed or a second kick
awarded, the kicker may alter the type of kick.
If the Referee blows his whistle when a fair-
catch has been made, a free kick must be taken,
even if the mark is in In-goal unless an opponent
unfairly charges the catcher, in which case, if in
the field-of-play, a penalty kick shall be sub-
stituted. or if in In-goal a Touch-down allowed.
If the mark is in In-goal it shall be deemed to
Notes on the Laws of the Game
Ill
have been made on the goal line. In the case of
a kick being taken from behind the goal line the
ball is in play if an opponent legitimately plays
it before it crosses the goal line, and a try may
be scored.
The Referee should note that in the case of a
drop kick or punt, the kicker has no second
chance. He may not feint to kick and then draw
back. Once he makes any movement to kick, the
opponents may charge.
LAW 23. Free Kick.
LAW 25. Place Kick at Goal after a Try.
If a player in taking a place kick at goal, kicks
the ball from the placer’s hands without the ball
being on the ground, the kick is void, and no
second kick is allowed.
If an intending kicker under Law 23 handles
the ball in contact with the ground for a kick at
goal, the Referee should disallow the kick
even though “ no-charge has been given.”
If the Referee whistles for no-charge as the
kick is in the act of being taken, and a goal
results, it should stand, but if not, the kicker
should have another kick under the original
conditions without the charge.
The Referee should see that the opposing
112
players do not gradually creep up, and that
they have both feet behind the mark or goal
line, otherwise he should disallow the charge.
Shouting by the defending team during a
kick at goal should be treated as “ miscon-
duct,” and if no goal is scored, another kick
should be allowed without the charge.
When another kick is allowed for any reason,
all the original preliminaries may be retaken
but in no circumstances is the kicker under Law
23 allowed to touch the ball when it is in contact
with the ground while it is being placed or has
been placed for the kick.
LAW 24. Penalty Kick.
When the Referee has indicated the mark,
the penalty kick may be taken at once provided
all of the kicker’s team are behind him.
The kicker need not wait until all of the
opposing team have retired to the line defined
in Law 24 (<7), but the latter are bound to retire
without delay and, while doing so, are bound
not to interfere in any way with the kicker or
with any opponent
I The prohibition in Law 24 (6) against the
icker next playing the ball is absolute, even in
in-goal.
Notes on the Laws of the Game
113
The obligation to retire imposed on the
opposing team means that they must run
towards the 10 yards line and must continucTo
do so while the kick is being taken and while the
ball is being played by the kicke” team. If
players so retiring stop to “ await results ” they
are liable to a further penalty, subject to Law
10 (15) as to advantage; they may stop retiring
and enter the game only when they have reached
the 10 yards line or when an opponent carrying
the ball has run 5 yards.
If the ball has been kicked and is then knocked
on the ensuing scrummage should be formed at
the place where the knock-on took place, subject
to Law 33.
If the kicker is taking a kick at goal, all
players of the opposing team must remain
passive from the time the kicker commences
his run until the kick has been taken.
If the kicker takes a drop kick and a goal
results, the goal stands even though the kicker
has not indicated to the Referee an intention
to kick at goal.
The indication of intention to kick at goal
may be given either orally or by any action of the
kicker which conveys such an intention, e.g., by
commencing to make a hole for a place kick. The
Referee may ask the kicker to state his intention.
114
If a second kick is awarded by the Referee on
account of an infringement by the opposing
team (e.g., for failure to retire or other inter-
ference) the mark for that second kick shall be
10 yards in front of the original mark or on the
goal-line, whichever is the nearer. If there is
an infringement by the opposing team in
connection with the second kick, the mark for
the ensuing penalty shall be 10 yards in front of
the second mark, and so on in the event of any
further infringements by the opposing team. A
second or subsequent kick need not be the same
type of kick as that taken in the first instance,
and it may be taken by any player of the non-
offending team.
Where the mark for the second or subsequent
kick is on the goal line and the non-offending
team elects to take a scrummage instead of a
kick, the scrummage should be formed in the
field.of play as nearly as practicable to the goal
line i.e. the line of feet of the players in the front
row of the defending team should be in the field
of play.
If notwithstanding a prior infringement by
the opposing team, a goal is kicked, the goal
should be awarded instead of a further penalty
KICK.
The Referee should not award a further
Notes on the Laws of the Game
115
penalty if he is satisfied that the offence has been
deliberately contrived by the non-offending team.
In such cases he should order a scrummage at the
mark.
LAW 25. Place Kick at Goal after a Try.
A kick at goal is optional and if not taken
the game should be restarted by a drop kick
from the centre.
LAW 26. Try.
jin view of the obligation on the Referee to
award a penalty try if one would probably have
been scored but for an offence under Law 20 (Z>)
and (d) (obstruction) or under Law 34 (Foul
Play or Misconduct) the provisions of this Law
relative to the awarding of a penalty try where
one would undoubtedly have been scored apply
only to other forms of “ unfair play or unlawful
[] interference”.
LAW 27. Touch.
Any player may be deemed by the Referee to
be participating in the line-out (see Note (a) to
Law 18 (2) and (3)).
The line-out begins when the ball leaves the
hands of the player throwing it in. Prior to that
any offence should be dealt with under Law
34 (c).
116
A player who wilfully prevents the ball from
i being thrown in 5 yards should be penalised
I under Law 36 (Waste of Time).
The line-out ends when the ball is on the
ground and a loose scrummage has been formed
or when the ball or a player carrying it emerges
from the line-out. A loose maul does not end the
linc-out.
When the ball has been passed or knocked
back from a line-out. the line-out is over.
Players in front of a player of their own team
who receives the ball from the line-out may be
off-side, but they should not be penalised under
Law 18 (1) (c) but only if (a) or (b) of that Law
applies.
A player may run up from behind the line-out
and take the ball from the throw-in if there is a
gap, but should he whilst doing so run into
another player of either team a penalty kick for
charging must be awarded under Law 'll (d) (ii).
LAW 31. Ball Held in In-goal.
When a player is so held in In-goal that he
cannot ground the ball the Referee should not
whistle for a scrummage under this Law until he
is sure that the player cannot pass or play the
Notes on the Laws of the Game
117
LAW 32. Taking Ball over Goal Line.
A drop-out should be awarded when, after
being touched by a player attempting to nullify
a dropped goal in general play, the ball is
subsequently touched down or crosses the dead
ball line or touch-in-goal line.
LAW 33. Infringements in In-goal, etc.
The decisions open to the Referee for in-
fringements in In-goal are:—
(1) For an offence by the attacking team
(a)	a touch-down, or
lb) warning and/or sending off under
Law 34, or
(c) a penalty kick under Law 34 (c).
(2) For an offence by the defending team
(a) a five yards scrummage, or
(b)	a penalty try, or
(c)	warning and/or sending off under
Law 34, or
(</) a penalty kick under Law 34 (c).
A penalty try should be awarded when by
obstruction or foul play in in-goal the defending
team has saved a try which otherwise would
probably have been scored.
See also Note to Law 20—Penalties.
118
A penalty kick must not be awarded for an
offence in In-goal except only when Law 34 (c)
applies.
/LAW 33. Infringements in In-goal, etc.
/LAW 34. Foul Play, Misconduct.
When a penalty is awarded under Law 34 (c)
for an offence in In-goal, and the penalty kick is
to be taken at the 25 yards line, the penalty shall
be awarded at any point on that line which the
non-offending team may select.
LAW 34. Foul Play, Misconduct.
(a) (1). Tripping means tripping with the
feet.
(a) (2). Law 34 provides that the Referee
must deal very sharply with obstruction or
interference. This includes the offence of “ wil-
fully holding a player not in possession of the
ball,” for which caution and/or sending off of
the offender is provided in the Law.
(fl) (3). The Referee should punish severely
all forms of late tackling. Players who wilfully
to thk must be sent
the held A penalty try must be awarded if the
late tackle prevents a probable try.
i ?Vhat constitutes a dangerous tackle must be
iett to the judgment of the Referee, having
Notes on the Laws of the Game
119
regard to the circumstances, e.g., the apparent
intentions of the tackler, or the nature of the
tackle, or the defenceless position of the player
being tackled or knocked over, which may be
the cause of serious injury.
LAW 34 (a) (5).
If the Referee is satisfied that a player has
wilfully caused a scrummage to collapse or that
as a result of any wilful infringement by a
player the scrummage has collapsed, he should
either caution the player or order him off the
field. For a second infringement he must order
him off.
See also Note to Law 20—Penalties.
LAW 35. Repeated Infringements.
The Referee should note that repeated in-
fringement is a question of fact and not a ques-
tion of whether the offender intended to infringe
Law 35. If the same player has to be penalised
repeatedly the Referee should deal with him
under this Law. The Referee must not condone
foul play by failing to apply (a) and (b) of this
Law.
Repeated infringements under (c) of this Law
may arise mainly in connection with Laws 15,
18 and 27. If a player has been penalised for
120
infringing the provisions of one of these Laws
several times in the same match, the Referee
should warn that player that he will be reported
if he offends in the same way again. If notwith-
standing the warning, the player does so, he
must be reported.
It is a question for the Referee whether or
not a series of the same offences by different
players of a team amounts to repeated infringe-
ment. If he considers that it does, he should
give a general warning to that team and, if the
offence is repeated, he must send the offending
player off the field, or report him as the case may
require.
In deciding the number of offences which
should constitute “ repeated infringement ” the
Referee should always apply a strict standard in
representative and senior matches. Tn the case
of junior or minor matches where ignorance of
the Laws and lack of skill may account for
many infringements a less strict standard may be
applied.
The International Board and the Unions in
membership with it will fully support Referees
35 strict an^ uniform enforcement of Law