The
LAWS OF THE GAME
OF RUGBY FOOTBALL
with
INSTRUCTIONS AND NOTES
ON THE LAWS
as framed by
The International Rugby
Football Board
© International Rugby Football Board
8
references for a Ruling the Union should state
its own opinion as to what the correct ruling
ought to be, as this will be helpful to the three
Designated Members.
(b) All decisionsof the three Designated Members
on applications for rulings on the Laws of the
Game should be circulated to all Unions after
confirmation by the Board.
(c) The Chairman of the Laws Committee shall
indicate which Rulings are to be submitted to
the Board for consideration as alterations to
rhe Laws, for Instructions and Notes on the
Law.
9
LAWS OF THE GAME OF
RUGBY FOOTBALL
OBJECT OF THE GAME
The Object of the Game is that two teams of fifteen
players each, observing fair play according to the Laws
and a sporting spirit, should by carrying, passing, and
kicking the ball score as many points as possible, the team
scoring the greater number of points to be the winner of
the match.
DECLARATION OF AMATEURISM
The game is an amateur game. No one is allowed to
seek or to receive payment or other material reward for
taking part in the Game.
10
definitions
The following terms have the meaning assigned to
them:
Beyond or Behind or In front of any position implies
“with both feet”, except when unsuited to the context.
Dead means that the ball is for the time being out of
play. This occurs when the referee blows his whistle to
indicate a stoppage of play or when an attempt to convert
a try is unsuccessful.
Defending Team means the team in whose half of the
ground the stoppage of play occurs and the opponents of
the defending team are referred to as “the Attacking
Team”.
Kick. A kick is made by propelling the ball with part of
the leg or foot (except the heel), from the knee to toe
inclusive. If the player is holding the ball, he must propel
it out of- his hands, or if it is on the ground, he must
propel it a visible distance.
Drop Kick. A drop kick is made by letting the ball fall
rom t e hand (or hands) to the ground and kicking it at
the first rebound as it rises.
A ^ace *s made by kicking the ball
after it has been placed on the ground for that purpose.
hand’L^nH^ m^de by lettin8 the ball fall from the
ground > 3nd kk*in* h before * ouches the
11
Mark. The mark is the place at which a free kick or
penalty kick is awarded.
Line Through the Mark (or Place). Except where
specifically stated otherwise, the words “a line through
the mark” or ‘‘a line through the place” always means a
line parallel to the touch line.
Union means the controlling body under whose
jurisdiction the match is played and in the case of an
International Match it means the International Rugby
Football Board or a Committee thereof.
Other definitions are included in and have effect as part
of the Laws.
The Plan
NOTES.
r- j. . . . -
indicates post with flag.
Length and breadth of field to be as near to dimensions indicated as possible.
AH areas to be rectangular
The distance from the goal line to the dead ball line should be not less than 10 metres,
where practicable.
----These broken lines indicate 10 metres distance from the halfway line and 5 metres
distance from the touch lines.
Th elines at the goal lines extend 5 metres into the field of play.
Goal dimensions:—3 metres is taken from the ground to the top edge of.the
crossbar and 5.60 metres inside to inside of the goal posts.
A minimum height of 1.20 metres above the ground is desirable for corner posts.
14
Law 1
LAWS
LAW 1. GROUND.
The field-of-play ts <be f sho""!. on the. PIan:
bounded by. but not including, the goal lines and touch
lines. , , .
The plaving area is the field-of-play and In-goal. The
playing enclosure is the playing area and a reasonable
area surrounding it.
The Plan, including all words and figures thereon, is to
take effect as part of these Laws.
The Terms appearing on the Plan are to bear their
apparent meaning and to be deemed part of the
definitions as if separately included.
(1)	All Hnes shown on the plan must be suitably
marked out. The touch lines are in touch. The goal lines
are In-goal. The dead-ball line is not in In-goal. The
touch-in-goal lines and comer posts are in touch-in-goal.
[3 The goal posts are to be erected in the goal lines. The 22
™ metres lines are in the 22 metres areas.
(2)	The game must be played on a ground of the area
(maximum) shown on the plan and marked in
accordance with the plan. The surface must be grass-
covered or, where this is not available, clay or sand.
provi ed the surface is not of dangerous hardness.
Any °^jection by the visiting team about the
made 1 ’n Wh’ch 's mar^ed out must
made to the referee before the first kick-off.
15
Law 1
NOTE
(i)	Advertising painted on the surface of the
playing area is not permitted.
LAW 2. BALL.
(1)	The ball when new shall be oval in shape, of four
panels and of the following dimensions:
Length in line.......... 280 to 300 mm.
Circumference (end on).... 760 to 790 mm.
Circumference (in width) .. 580 to 620 mm.
Weight................ 400 to 440 grms.
NOTE
(i)	The ball, at commencementof play, should have
a pressure equivalent to 91? - 101b. per square
inch (0.6697 - 0.7031 kilograms per square
centimetre) at sea level.
(2)	The dimensions of the ball may be reduced only
for younger schoolboys.
(3)	Balls may be specially treated to make them
resistant to mud and easier to grip. The casings need not
be of leather.
NOTE
(ii) It is permissible to have spare balls available
during a match, but a team may not gain or
attempt togain an unfair advantage through their
use or by changing them.
LAW 3. NUMBER OF PLAYERS.
(1)	A match shall be played by not more than fifteen
players in each team.
(2)	When a Union authorises matches to be played
with fewer than fifteen players, the Laws of the Game
shall apply except that there shall be no fewer than three
players in a scrummage at all times.
(3)	Replacement of players shall be allowed in
recognised trial matches as determined by the Unions
having jurisdiction over the match.
(4)	In all other matches, a player may be replaced
only on account of injury and subject to the following
conditions: —
(a) Not more than three players in each team may be|
replaced.
Exception:
In matches between teams of schoolboys or
teams where all players are under the age of 21.
up to six players may be replaced: the age
limitation shall be applied from the commence-
ment of the official season of the visited Union.
(b) A player who has been replaced must NOT
resume playing in the match.
(5)	fa) In matches in which a national represen-
nwieveaniis Playin8’ a P^yer may be replaced
when, in the opinion of a medics)
17
Law 3
practitioner, the player is so injured that he
should not continue playing in the match.
(b) For such competition and other domestic match-
es as a Union gives express permission an injured
player may be replaced—
° on the advice of a medically-trained person,
or
• if a medically-trained person is not present;
with the approval of the referee.
(6)	If the referee is advised by a doctor or other
medically-trained person or for any other reason
considers that a player is so injured that it would be
harmful for him to continue playing, the referee shall
require the player to leave the playing area.
(7)	Any objection by either team as regards the
number of players in a team may be made to the referee at
any time but the objection shall not affect any score
previously obtained.
NOTE
(i)	As soon as a referee becomes aware that a team
has more than the correct number of players on
the field, he must require the captain of that team
to reduce the number of players appropriately.
Attention is drawn to LB. Resolution 7.6 which
states that "A player who has suffered definite
concussion should not participate in any match or
training for a period of at least three weeks from
the time of the injury and then only subject to
18
Law J
being cleared by a proper neurological examina-
tion’’
LAW 4. PLAYERS’DRESS.
(1) A player must not wear dangerous projections
such as buckles or rings.
(2)	Shoulder pads of the “harness” type must not be
worn. If the referee is satisfied that a player requires
protection following an injury to a shoulder, the wearing
of a pad of cottonwool, sponge rubber or similar soft
material may be permitted provided the pad is attached
to the body or sewn on to the jersey.
(3)	Studs of a player’s boots must conform to the
British Standard BS 6366 :1983. They must be circular,
securely fastened to the boots and of the following
dimensions:—
Length (maximum)........
(measured from sole)
Diameter at base (minimum).......... 13 mm.
Diameter at top (minimum)........... 10 mm.
Minimum diameter of integral washer... 20mm-
TLlu?™8 Of a single stud at ’he toe of a boot is
prohibited.
the maflh%r^eree has power t0 decide before or during
He must then Pa P,ayer’s dress is dangerous.
part and oermith^ ?e player t0 remove the dangerous
lm to resume playing in the match only
18 mm.
19
Law 4
after it has been removed.
Note (i) The moulded rubber multi-studded sole is
acceptable under this Law.
LAW 5. TOSS, TIME.
No-side is the end of a match.
(1) Before a match begins the captains shall toss for
the right to kick-off, or the choice of ends.
(2)	The duration of play in a match shall be such time
not exceeding eighty minutes as shall be directed by the
Union or, in the absence of such direction, as agreed
upon by the teams or, if not agreed, as fixed by the
referee. In International matches two periods of forty
minutes each shall be played.
NOTE
(i) The term “not exceeding eighty minutes"
excludes any extra time which the Union may
direct or authorise to be played in the case of a
drawn match in a knock-out competition.
(3)	Play shall be divided into two halves. At half-time
the teams shall change ends and there shall be an interval
of not more than five minutes.
(4)	A period not exceeding one minute shall be
allowed for treatment of an injury to a player or for any
other permitted delay. A longer period may be allowed
20
Laws
only if the additional tii
an injured player from
Playing time lost as
is required for the removal of
the playing area.
a result of any such permitted
delav or of delay m taxing a kick at goal shall be made up
in that half of the match in which the delay occurred.
subject to the power vested in the referee to declare
no-side before time has expired.
NOTE
(ii)	The referee must make up lost time through any
delay in taking a kick at goal. This applies
whether or not the referee considers the delay to
be “undue delay" on the pan of the kicker.
Playing lime lost should begin from 40 seconds
after the player has indicated his intention to
kick at goal.
LAW 6. REFEREE AND TOUCH JUDGES.
A. Referee.
(1) There shall be a referee for every match. He shall
e appointed by or under the authority of the Union or,
m case no such authorised referee has been appointed, a
referee may be mutually agreed upon between the team*
home tenamUCh agreement’ he sha11 be appointed by the
period nf re^er^e *s unable to officiate for the whole
f match a replacement shall be appointed
21
Law 6
either in such manner as may be directed by the Union,
or in the absence of such direction, by the referee or, if
he is unable to do so. by the home team.
(3)	The referee shall keep the time and the score, and
he must in every match apply fairly the Laws of the Game
without any variation or omission, except only when the
Union has authorised the application of an experimental
Law approved by the International Board.
NOTES
(i) If the referee is in doubt as to the correct time he
should consult either or both of the touch judges.
Only if the information given by them is
insufficient may he consult another person.
(ii) Where the referee allows time for delays the time
must be made up in the half of the match in which
the delay occurs.
(iii)	The referee has power to declare no-side before
time has expired if, in his opinion, the full time
cannot for any reason be played or continuance
of play would be dangerous.
(iv)	Where a player is injured, the referee should not
allow more than one minute's delay unless a
longer period is necessary' to remove the player,
or to give essential treatment on the playing
area.
22
UwlL,
The referee should not allow time for injury ifh.
( ’ has reason to believe that a player is fe.gn,n{
injury In such circumstances he should order ths
nlaver to be removed immediately from the
playing area and then order play to be resumed
forthwith.
(vi)	The referee should, when the ball is dead, allow
lime for a player to replace or repair a badly tom
jersey or shorts. He must not allow time for 2
player to retie or repair a bootlace.
(4)	He must not give any instruction or advice 10
either team prior to the match. During the match h;
must not consult with anyone except only
(a)	either or both touch judges on a point 0!
fact relevant to their functions, or or
matters relating to Law 26 (3), or
(b)	in regard to time.
(5)	The referee is the sole judge of fact and of Law. Al
his decisions are binding on the players. He cannot alter
a decision except when given before he observes that 1
touch judge’s flag is raised or before he has received?
report related to Law 26(3) from a touch judge.
(6)	The referee must carry a whistle and must blow it
(0) to indicate the beginning of the match, half
time, resumption of play after half-time-
n°-side, a score or a touch-down and
(b) to stop play because of infringement or
otherwise as required by the Laws.
NOTES
(vii)	The referee has power to stop the match at any
time by blowing his whistle but he must not do so
except on the occasions indicated in Law 6 A (6 >
which include the following:
(a) when he orders a scrummage;
(b) when the ball has gone into touch or touch
in-goal, or touched or crossed the dead-ball
lines;
(c)	when the ball has been grounded in In-goal:
(d)	when the ball is unplayable;
(e)	when he stops for an offence under Law 26
(3) prior to ordering off or cautioning the
offender, and in such a case must whistle a
second time when he awards the penalty try
or kick;
(j) when he awards a penalty kick or free kick;
(g)	when he allows a fair-catch;
(h)	when the ball or player carrying it has
touched him and one team has therefrom
gained an advantage;
(i)	when a player is injured but only when the
ball next becomes dead unless (j) below
applies;
(j) when continuation of play would • be
24
Law 6
dangerous, including the collapse of a
scrummage.
(viii)	The referee should whistle for half-time or no-
side as soon as lime has expired if the ball be dead
or if the ball be in play when the time has
expired, as soon as the ball next becomes dead.
If the ball becomes dead after time has expired
(a)	as the result of a iry the referee shall allow
the kick to be taken and then whistle for half-
time or no-side, or if it be
(b)	as the result of a fair catch, free kick or
penalty kick the referee shall allow play to
proceed until the ball next becomes dead.
If time expires before the ball is put into a
scrummage or is thrown in from touch, the
referee must whistle for half-time or no-side.
(7)	During a match no person other than the players.
the referee and the touch judges may be within the
p aying enclosure or the playing area unless with the
permission of the referee which shall be given only fora
special and temporary purpose.
medicalfv^"13^011611116 durin8 rainor injuries ^th2
thenlavinoa med Person being permitted to come on to
the&
is subject o the referpUat,On °f Play during minor
tostopplayatany time,SPernllSSiOn t0 WS aB"
25
Law 6
NOTE
(ix)	If the referee decides to stop play in the terms of
Section (7) but without an infringement having
occurred or without the ball being dead, he
should restart play with a scrummage and the
ball shall be put in by the team last in possession
or otherwise by the attacking team.
For RFU only
LAW 6A(7) AMENDMENT 1988
Ruling issued by the Rugby Football Union
The provisions of the second paragraph of Section 7 must
be applied in all matches (with the exception of matches
between teams aged under 19 or below) when a medically
trained person is in attendance. While domestic matches
between teams aged under 19 or below are excluded, in
matches at that level involving teams from other Unions
the provisions are to be applied unless it is the policy of
the other Union also to exclude such teams from the
provision of this Law.
Before the match, the referee must ascertain whether a
medically trained person is available and, if he is, shall
issue appropriate instructions to him and to the Team
Captains.
It is to be noted that in all matches in which these
provisions are applied, the referee has a discretion to stop
play at any time. He should do so in cases where the injury
is other than minor or if continuation of play is likely to
result in danger to players.
26 ,
Law 6
1/ \ referee should, when necessary, but no;
before he indicates his permission, allow bag.
gage attendants, doctors or first aid personnel-
other than as provided in Section (7) to enter the®
playing enclosure and playing area. He should
be strict in refusing permission to persons™
intending to give advice or instructions to a
team, and players should not be allowed to
leave the playing area to get advice or instruc-
tions. Latitude should, however, be allowed io
recognised trial matches.
(8)	(a) All players must respect the authority of th!
referee and they must not dispute his decisions
They must (except in the case of a kick-off) stop
playing at once when the referee has blown hi!
whistle.
(b) A player must when so requested whethei
before or during the match, allow the refereetc
inspect his dress.
(c) A player must not leave the playing enclosure
without the referee’s permission. If a player
retires during a match because of injury or
otherwise, he must not resume playing in that
ruatch until the referee has given his permission.
NOTES
dIsvp fr°? *njUIT referee should not allow -
er to eave the playing enclosure except is
27
Law 6
special circumstances.
The referee should not permit a player to
resume until the ball is dead.
(xii) The referee must not permit a team or individual
players to leave the playing area in order to
change jerseys.
(xiii) If a player who has retired on account of injury or
other reason resumes playing without the
permission of the referee, the referee should
impose penalties for misconduct if he considers
that the offence was wilful for the purpose of
assisting his team or obstructing the opponents. If
the offence was not wilful interference and if the
offending team gains an advantage the referee
should order a scrummage at the place where the
player resumed playing without permission and
the opposing team shall put in the ball.
Penafity:— Infringement by a player is subject to
penalty as misconduct.
B.	Touch Judges.
(1)	There shall be two touch judges for every match.
Unless touch judges have been appointed by or under
the authority of the Union, it shall be the responsibility
of each team to provide a touch judge.
(2)	A touch judge is under the control of the referee
who may instruct him as to his duties and may over-rule
any of his decisions. The referee may request that an
unsatisfactory touch judge be replaced and he has power
28
Law 6
to order off and report to the Union a touch judtje whoiD
his opinion is guilty of misconduct.
(3)	Each touch judge shall carry a flag (or othei'
suitable object) to signal his decisions. There shall be on;
touch judge on each side of the ground and he sha!
remain in touch except when judging a kick at goal.
(4)	He must hold up his flag when the ball or a playa
carrying it has gone into touch and must indicate the
place of throw in and which team is entitled to do so. Hi
must also signal to the referee when the ball or a playe;
carrying it has gone into touch-in-goa 1.
(5)	The touch judge shall lower his flag when the ba’.
has been thrown in except on the following occasion!
when he must keep it raised:—
(a)	when the player throwing in the ball puts any
part of either foot in the field-of-play,
(b)	when the ball has not been thrown in by the team
entitled to do so,
(c)	when, at a quick throw-in, the ball that went into
touch is replaced by another or is handled by
anyone other than the players.
beent£
thrown in from the correct place.
(6)	In
team is play
Union give
*n w^ch a national representative
s exnrln such domestic matches for which a
P ess permission, and where referee
29
Law 6
recognised by the Union are appointed as touch judges.
the touch judge shall report incidents of foul play and
misconduct under Law 26(3) to the referee for the match.
A touch judge shall signal such an incident to the
referee by raising his flag to a horizontal position pointing
directly across the field at a right angle to the touchline.
The touch judge must remain in touch and continue to
carry out his other functions until the next stoppage in
play when the referee shall consult him regarding the
incident. The referee may then take whatever action he
deems appropriate and any consequent penalties shall be
in accordance with Law 26(3).
(7)	When a kick at goal from a try, or penalty kick is
being taken both touch judges must assist the referee by
signalling the result of the kick. One touch judge shall
stand at or behind each of the goal posts and shall raise his
flag if the ball goes over the cross bar.
LAW 7. MODE OF PLAY.
A match is started by a kick-off, after which any player
who is on-side may at any time
• catch or pick up the ball and run with it,
• pass, throw or knock the ball to another
player,
• kick or otherwise propel the ball,
• tackle, push or shoulder an opponent holding
the ball,
• fall on the ball,
30
Law 7
• take part in scrummage, ruck, maul or
line-out,
provided he does so in accordance with these Laws.
NOTE
(i)	Ifa player hands the ball to another player ofhb
team without any propulsion or throwing of the
ball, this does constitute a pass.
LAW 8. ADVANTAGE.
The referee shall not whistle for an infringement
during play which is followed by an advantage
gained by the non-offending team. An advan-
tage must be either territorial or such possession
of the ball as constitutes an obvious tactical
advantage. A mere opportunity to gain advan-
tage is not sufficient.
NOTES
(i)	The referee is given a wide discretion as to what
constitutes an advantage and is not limited to a
territorial advantage. The referee is the sole judge
of whether an advantage has been gained.
(ii)	The only occasions when advantage does not
apply are:-
(^) when the ball or a player carrying it touches
the referee (Law.9(l));
* en the ball emerges from either end of the
nne at a scrummage not having beer
31
Law 8
played (Law 20, note (xvi));
(c)	when a player is “accidentally” off-side
(Exception (i) Law 24 (A) (2) (b)\
(iii)	When any irregularity of play not provided for in
die Laws occurs, a scrummage shall be formed
where the irregularity occurred. In deciding
which team should put in the ball, the referee
should apply Law 20(7).
LAW 9. BALL OR PLAYER TOUCHING
REFEREE.
(1)	If the ball or a player carrying it touches the
referee in the field-of-play, play shall continue
unless the referee considers either team has
gained an advantage in which case he shall order
a scrummage. The team which last played the
ball shall put it in.
(2)	(a) If the ball in a player’s possession or a player
carrying it touches the referee in that player’s
In-goal, a touch-down shall be awarded.
(b)	If a player carrying the ball in his opponents’
In-goal touches the referee before grounding
the ball, a try shall be awarded at that place.
NOTES
(i) If the ball, while in play in In-goal at either end
but not held by a player, touches the referee, a
32
Law 9
. . ifl, nr a spectator, a touch-down shallb
,0UCaJ“d S that a touch-down uc.
oJherwise have been obtained or the ball woii
have gone into touch-in-goal or on or over Ik
dead-ball line.
(ii)	if the ball while in play in In-goal at either enc
but not held by a player, touches the referee..
touch judge, ora spectator, a try shall be awards
at that place provided an attacking player won
otherwise have scored it.
(iii)	When the ball touches a spectator in either of lit
above cases, if the referee is in doubt, the awar.
shall be made to the visiting team if that team.
the defending team under (i) or the attackir
team under (ii).
LAW 10. KICK-OFF.
Kick-off is (a) a place kick taken from the centre of th
half-way line by a team which has (he right to start lb
match or by the opposing team on the resumption of p-
after the half-time interval or by the defending team af®
goal has been scored, or (b) a drop kick taken at orfe
behind the centre of the half-way line by the defend
team after an unconverted try.
be kicked from the correct pl*
'rm of kick; otherwise it shall1
(1) The ball must
and by the correct ft
kicked off again.
33
Law 10
(2)	The ball must reach the opponents’ ten metres
line, unless first played by an opponent; otherwise it shall
be kicked off again, or a scrummage formed at the
centre, at the opponents’ option. If it reaches the ten
metres line and is then blown back, play shall continue.
(3)	If the ball pitches directly into touch, touch-in-
goal or over or on the dead-ball line, the opposing team
may accept the kick, have the ball kicked off again, or
have a scrummage formed at the centre.
(4)	The kicker’s team must be behind the ball when
kicked; otherwise a scrummage shall be formed at the-
centre.
(5)	The opposing team must stand on or behind the
ten metres line. If they are in front of that line or if they
charge before the ball has been kicked, it shall be kicked
off again.
LAW 11. METHOD OFSCORING.
Try. A try is scored by first grounding the ball in the
opponents’ In-goal.
A try shall be awarded if one would probably have
been scored but for foul play by the opposing team.
Goal. A goal is scored by kicking the ball over the
opponents’ cross-bar and between the goal posts from
the field-of-play by any place kick or drop kick, except a
34
Law 11
kick-off dropout or free-kick, without touchings
grou^orany^ayerofthe kicker steam. h
A coal is scored if the ball has crossed the bar, ei.
though it may have been blown backwards afters
and whether it has touched the cross-bar or either gK
post or not.
A goal is scored if the ball has crossed the k
notwithstanding a prior offence of the opposing team.
A goal may be awarded if the ball is illegally touch;
by any player of the opposing team and if the refer;
considers that a goal would otherwise probably ha»
been scored.
A
The scoring values are as follows:—
A try...........................................4 poir
A goal scored after a try.......................2 poifi
A goal from a penalty kick .....................3 poin
A dropped goal otherwise obtained...............3 poiK
LAW 12. TRY AND TOUCH-DOWN.
Gro^dingtheballistheactofaplayer who
() while holding the ball in his hand (or hands)1'
(or arms) brings the ball in contact with*
ground, or
(b> While,heon the ground either
35
Law 12
° places his hand (or hands) or arm (or arms)
on it with downward pressure, or
° falls upon it and the ball is anywhere under
the front of his body from waist to neck
inclusive.
Picking up the ball from the ground is not grounding it.
V Try.
(1) A player who is on-side scores a try when
© he carries the ball into his opponents’ In-
goal, or
® the ball is in his opponents’ In-goal.
(and he first grounds it there).
(2)	The scoring of a try includes the following
cases:—
(a)	if a player carries, passes, knocks or kicks the’-
ball into his In-goal and an opponent first
grounds it,
(b)	if, at a scrummage or ruck, a team is pushed over
its goal line and before the ball has emerged it is
first grounded in In-goal by an attacking player,
(c)	if the momentum of a player, when tackled,
carries him into his opponents’ In-goal and he
first there grounds the ball,
(d)	if a player first grounds the ball on his
opponents’ goal line or if the ball is in contact
with the ground and a goal post.
36
Law 12
(e)	If a tackle occurs in such a position that t
tackled player whilst complying with the la«
able to place the ball on or over the goal
(3)	If a player grounds the ball in his opponec
In-goal and picks it up again, a try is scor:
where it was first grounded.
(4)	A try may be scored by a player who is in toj
or in touch-in-goal provided he is not cam:
the ball. 1
B.	Penalty Try.
A penalty try shall be awarded between the posts ifb
for foul play by the defending team
• a try would probably have been scored.o
• it would probably have been scored in
more favourable position than that whe
the ball was grounded.
C.	Touch-Down.
(1) A touch-down occurs when a player ft
grounds the ball in his In-goal.
(2) After a touch-down play shall be restarted eij
by a drop-out or a scrummage, as provide
Law 14.
D.	Scrummage after Grounding in Case of Doubt'
Where there is doubt as to which team first Sr0Ul\
the ball in In-goal, a scrummage shall be forme
37
Law 12
metres from the goal line opposite the place where the
ball was grounded. The attacking team shall put in the
ball.
LAW 13. KICK AT GOAL AFTER A TRY.
(1)	After a try has been scored, the scoring team has
the right to take a place kick or drop kick at goal,
on a line through the place where the try was
scored.
If the scoring team does not take the kick, play
shall be restarted by a drop kick from the centre.
unless time has expired.
(2) If a kick is taken:—
(a)	it must be taken without undue delay;
(b)	any player including the kicker may place the
ball;
(c)	the kicker’s team, except the placer, must be
behind the ball when kicked;
(d)	if the kicker kicks the ball from a placer’s hands
without the ball being on the ground, the kick is
void;
(e)	the opposing team must be behind the goal line
until the kicker begins his run or offers to kick
when they may charge or jump with a view to
preventing a goal.
(3)	Neither the kicker nor a placer shall wilfully do
anything which may lead the opposing team to
38
Law 13
charge prematurely. If either does so, the chaq
shall not be disallowed.
Penalty:- o For an infringement by the kicker’s team-
the kick shall be disallowed.
o For an infringement by the opposiq
team—the charge shall be disallowed. I'
however, the kick has been take
successfully, the goal shall stand. If itwi
unsuccessful, the kicker may take anotht
kick under the original conditions withoi
the charge and may change the type o
kick.
NOTES
(i)	In addition to the general provision regards
waste of time, the kicker is bound to kick witho.
delay, under penalty.
A player should not be permitted to I-
unreasonably slow in taking any kick at goal?
period of one minute between the indication
intention to kick at goal and (he actual kick isw
inside the zone of “undue delay”. A player who
unreasonably slow, should be warned that if’
persists in delay, penalties will be applied.
Even without a caution, if the delav is clearly
breach of Law, (he kick should be disallow*
and a kick-off ordered.
(ii)	The referee must always make up lime lost’
n5 e ay in taking the kick, as is provided tor-
39
Law 13
note (ii) under Law 5.
(iii)	The referee should see that the opposing players
do not gradually creep up and that they ha\ e both
feet behind the goal line, otherwise he should
disallow the charge.
(iv)	Shouting by the defending team during a kick at
goal should be treated as misconduct and. if no
goal is scored, another kick should be allowed
without the charge.
(v)	When another kick is allowed for any reason, all
the original preliminaries may be retaken.
(vi)	If the ball rolls over and away from the line
through the place where the try was scored and
the ball is kicked over the crossbar, a goal should
be awarded.
(vii)	If, after the kicker has commenced his run. the
ball rolls over into touch another kick under the
original conditions should not be allowed.
(viii)	The kick must be taken with the ball which was
in play unless the referee decides that the ball is
defective.
(ix)	The Law does not allow the use of sand or
sawdust for placing the ball on hard playing
fields when taking a place kick at goal, but in
exceptional local conditions, such a variation
from normal practice might be permitted.
40
LAW 14. IN-GOAL.
In-goal is the area bounded by a goal-line, touch-in-
goal lines and dead-ball line. It includes the goal lines an:
goal posts but excludes touch-in-goal lines and dead-bal
line.
Touch-in-goal occurs when the ball or player carrying
touches a corner post or a touch-in-goal line or the grounc
or a person or object on or beyond it. The flag is not pan
of the comer post.
Five Metres Scrummage
(1) If a player carrying the ball in In-goal is so held
that he cannot ground the ball, a scrummage shall be
formed five metres from the goal line opposite the place
where he was held.
The attacking team shall put in the ball.
(2)	(a) If a defending player heels, kicks, carries.
passes or knocks the ball over his goal line andii
there becomes dead except where
• a try is scored, or
• he wilfully knocks or throws the ball fror
the field-of-play into touch-in-goal or ova
his dead-ball line, or
charo eJencJln8 P^yer in In-goal has his kid
harged down by an attacking player after
carried the ball back from the field-oi
Play, or
41
Law 14
° a defending player put it into In-goal and the
ball is then touched down or goes into
touch-in-goal or over the dead ball line, or
(c)	if a defending player carrying the ball in the
field-of-play is forced into his In-goal and he
then touches down, or
(d)	if, at a scrummage or ruck, a defending team
with the ball in its possession is pushed over its
goal line and before the ball has emerged first
grounds it in In-goal,
a scrummage shall be formed five metres from the goal
line opposite the place where the ball or a player carrying
it crossed the goal line.
The attacking team shall put in the ball.
NOTES
(i)	If a defending player wilfully puts the ball back
into his own In-goal, he accepts all the
consequences of taking that action. Many things
may happen in In-goal after the ball has been
carried, passed, knocked, heeled or kicked back
by a defending player and it may be quite an
appreciable time before the ball becomes dead
and Law 14 applies.
(ii)	Paragraph 2 (b) of Law 14 applies whether the
attacking player charges down the kick in the
field-of-play or in In-goal.
42
Law 14
(iii)	If play similar to a maul takes place in In-goal
Law 14 (1) applies.
Drop-Out.
(3)	Except where the ball is knocked on or thrown
forward in the field of play or in in-goal, if an attacking
player kicks, carries or passes the ball and it travels into
his opponents in-goal either directly or having toucheda
defender who does not wilfully attempt to stop, catch or
kick it, and it is there
• grounded by a defending player, or
• goes into touch-in-goal or over the dead-
ball-line
a drop-out shall be awarded.
Penalties
(a)	A penalty try shall be awarded when by foul plaj
in In-goal the defending team has prevented t
try which otherwise would probably have bee:
scored.
(b)
(c)
A try shall be disallowed and a drop-o-'
awarded, if a try would probably not have betf
gained but for foul play by the attacking team
For foul play in In-goal while the ball is out*
P ay the penalty kick shall be awarded at
P*ace where play would otherwise have restart*
’ ln addition, the player shall either *
43
Law 14
ordered off or cautioned that he will be sent off
if he repeats the offence.
(d)	For wilfully charging or obstructing in In-goal a
player who has just kicked the ball the penalty
shall be
o a penalty kick in the field-of-play five
metres from the goal-line opposite the place
of infringement, or, at the option of the non-
offending team,
o a penalty kick where the ball alights as
provided under Law 26 (3) Penalty (ii) (b).
(e)	For other infringements in In-goal, the penalty
shall be the same as for a similar infringement in
the field-of-play except that the mark for a
penalty kick or free kick shall be in the field-of-
play five metres from the goal-line opposite the
place of infringement and the place of any
scrummage shall be five metres from the goal-
line opposite the place of infringement but not
within five metres of the touch-line.
NOTES
(iv)	If from a free kick or penalty kick taken in In-goal
the ball is made dead by the defending team
before it has crossed the goal-line, a scrummage
shall be awarded to the attacking team five
metres from the goal-line opposite to where it was
made dead.
44
LAW 15. DROP-OUT.
A drop-out is a drop kick awarded to the defend*
team.
(1) The drop kick must be taken from anywhere o;
or behind the twenty-two metres line; otherwise the bi
shall be dropped out again.
i 1 (2) The ball must cross the twenty-two metres lint
otherwise the opposing team may have it dropped oc
again, or have a scrummage formed at the centre of th:
m twenty-two metres line. If it crosses the twenty-twc
metres line and is then blown back, play shall continue
NOTE
1 (i) If the ball does not cross the twenty-two metre
line and an opponent picks up the ball anc
grounds it over the kicker’s goal line, a try
should be awarded.
(3) If the ball pitches directly into touch, ti
opposing team may accept the kick, have the ban
dropped out again, or have a scrummage formed at t«
centre of the twenty-two metres line.
(4)	The kicker’s team must be behind the ball whec
kicked; otherwise a scrummage shall be formed at tht
centre of the twenty-two metres line.
(5)	The opposing team must not charge over the
twenty-two metres line; otherwise the ball shall
dropped out again.
45
Law 15
NOTES
(ii) If a player of the opposing team remains beyond
or crosses the twenty-two metres line for the
purpose of delaying or interfering with the player
who is about to drop-out, a penalty under
Law 26 (3) (h) should be awarded.
(iii) The advantage law applies where the drop-kick
does not reach the twenty-two metres line and
goes into touch.
LAW 16. FAIR-CATCH (MARK).
(a) A player makes a fair-catch when being station-
ary with both feet on the ground, in his
twenty-two metres area or in his in-goal, he
cleanly catches the ball direct from a kick,
knock-on or throw-forward by one of his
opponents and, at the same time, he exclaims
“Mark!”
A fair catch may be obtained even though the
ball on its way touches a goal post or crossbar
and can be made in In-goal.
(b)	A free kick is awarded for a fair-catch.
(1) The kick must be taken by the player making the
fair-catch, unless he is injured in so doing. If he is unable
to take the kick within one minute a scrummage shall be
formed at the mark. His team shall put in the ball.
(2)	If the mark is in In-goal any resultant scrummage
shall be five metres from the goal line on a line through
the mark.
46
Law 16
I
F
NOTE .., , . I
(i)	If an opponent unfairly charges the catcher ir
the playing area after the referee has blown his
whistle for a fair catch, a penalty kick shall be
awarded.
LAW 17. KNOCK-ON OR THROW-FORWARD.
A knock-on occurs when the ball travels forwc
towards the direction of the opponents’ dead-ball fc
after:—
• a player loses possession of it, or
• a player propels or strikes it with his hand:
arm, or
• it strikes a player’s hand or arm
A throw-forward occurs when a player carrying the bi
throws or passes it in the direction of his opponir:
dead-ball line. A throw-in from touch is not a thro*
forward. If the ball is not thrown or passed forward bin-
bounces forward after hitting a player or the ground, ili
not a throw-forward.
NOTES
(i)	A pass, throw or knock-on should not i'
adjudged an infringement unless it is clearly-
under Law. If there is any doubt, play should I1
allowed to proceed.
(ii)	A fair-catch can be made from a knock-on.
intention^ ^n0C^‘0n Or throw forward must nol^
47
Law 17
~~l Penalty: — Penalty kick at the place of infringement or in
accord with Law 14, Penalty (e).
(2) If the knock-on or throw-forward is
unintentional, a scrummage shall be formed either at the
place of infringement or, if it occurs at a line-out, fifteen
metres from the touch line along the line-of-touch
unless:—
® a fair catch has been allowed, or
0 the ball is knocked on by a player who is in
the act of charging down the kick of an
opponent but is not attempting to catch the
ball, or
© the ball is knocked on one or more times
by a player who is in the act of catching or
picking it up or losing possession of it and is
recovered by that player before it has
touched the ground or another player.
NOTE
(iii)	If an attacking player knocks-on or throws
forward in the field-of-play and the ball travels
into In-goal either directly or after having
touched a defender who does not wilfully attempt
to stop, catch or kick it. and it is there
(a)	grounded by a player of either team, or
(b)goes into touch-in-goal or over the dead-ball
line, a scrummage should be awarded at the
place of the knock-on or throw-forward.
48
LAW 18. TACKLE, LYING WITH, ON OR NEAR
THE BALL.
A tackle occurs when a player carrying the ball in thi
field-of-play is held by one or more opponents so that
while he is so held he is brought to the ground or the ball
comes into contact with the ground. If the ball carrier it
on one knee, or both knees, oris sitting on the ground, oi
is on top of another player who is on the ground, the ball
carrier is deemed to have been brought to the ground.
(1)
(a)
(b)
(c)
A tackled player must immediately
pass the ball
or
release the ball
and
get up or move away from the ball.
A player who goes to the ground and gathers the
all or with the ball in his possession but who is not
?ck?e„ mUSt immediately get up on his feet with
the ball 1
or
pass the ball
or
ball SC anc^ &et UP or move away from the
play. Player must be on his feet before he can
49
Law 18
(2) It is illegal for any player.
(a)	to prevent a tackled player from passing or
releasing the ball, or getting up or moving away
after he has passed or released it,
(b)	to pull the ball from a tackled player’s possession
or attempt to pick up the ball before the tackled
player has released it,
(c)	while lying on the ground after a tackle to play or
interfere with the ball in any way or to tackle or
attempt to tackle an opponent carrying the ball,
(d)	to wilfully fall on or over a player lying on the
ground with the ball in his possession,
(e)	to wilfully fall on or over players lying on the
ground with the ball between them, or in close
proximity, or,
(j) while lying on the ground in close proximity to the
ball to prevent an opponent from gaining possession
of it
(3)	A player must not fall on or over the ball emerging
from a scrummage or ruck
Penalty: Penalty kick at the place of infringement.
(4)	A try may be scored if the momentum of a player
carries him into his opponent’s In-goal even
though he is tackled.
NOTES
(i)	The requirements to pass or release the ball
immediately allows a player to put the ball on the
50
Law 18
ground in any direction, provided he does so as
soon as the tackle occurs. A tackled player is
permitted to pass or throw the ball or push it along
the ground, provided he does so immediately and
it is not in a forward direction.
(ii)	It is not a tackle if the ball carrier is lifted by an
opponent so that both his feet are off the ground.
(iii)	If a tackled player does not pass or release the
ball immediately and the referee is in doubt as to
responsibility for failure to pass or release it, he
should at once order a scrummage.
(iv)	If a tackle occurs in such a position that the
tackled player whilst complying with the Law. is
able to place the ball over the goal line he may do
so to score a try. In such circumstances a
defending player may attempt to prevent such a
try being socred by pulling the ball from the
attacking player’s possession but must not kick
the ball.
(v)	Danger may arise if a tackled player fails to pass
or release or move away from the ball at once or
is prevented from doing so. In such cases the
Jv£ee Sh°Uld nOt delay in awardinB a Pena,l)
l) immpa-3^! Sha11 be PlaYed only if it occurS 1
immediately.
e proximity means within one metre.
51
LAW 19. LYING WITH, ON OR NEAR THE
BALL.
“The requirements of this Law are now incorporated
into Law 18”.
LAW 20. SCRUMMAGE.
A scrummage, which can take place only in the
field-of-play, is formed by players from each team closing
up in readiness to allow the ball to be put on the ground
between them but is not formed within five metres of the
touchline. If the ball in a scrummage is on or over the goal
line the scummage is ended.
The middle player in each front row is the hooker, and \
the players on either side of him are the props.
The middle line means an imaginary line on the ground
directly beneath the line formed by the junction of the
shoulders of the two front rows.
Forming a Scrummage
(1) A team must not wilfully delay the forming of a
scrummage.
(2) Every scrummage shall be formed at the place of
infringement or as near thereto as is practicable within
the field-of-play. It must be stationary with the middle
line parallel to the goal lines until the ball has been put in.
52
Law 20
Before commencing engagement each front row musi
be in a crouched position with heads and shoulders no
lower than their hips and so that they are no more than one
arm’s length from their opponents’ shoulders.
In the interest of safety each front row should touch on
the upper arms and then pause prior to engagement in the
sequence: crouch-touch-pause-engage
NOTES
(i) To the extent that is necessary the scrummage is
to be moved from the place of infringement so
that the scrummage formed is in the field-of-play.
The scrummage is ended if the ball in the
scrummage touches or crosses a goal line or when
the ball emerges.
(ii)	When the place of “infringement” is within five
metres of a touch line the scrummage is to be
formed five metres from that touch line.
(iii)	A crouched position is the extension of the
normal stance by bending the knees sufficiently
to step into the engagement without a charge.
P.
*S da?£erous play for a front row to form down
e is ance from its opponents and rush against them.
NOTE
(i ) The referee should not permit the front rows to
se up until the ball is in the hands of the player
and ,s available to be put in immediately.
53
Law 20
F.K. (4) A minimum of five players from each team shall be
required to form a scrummage. While the scrummage is in
progress a minimum of five.players shall remain bound on
the scrummage until it ends. Each front row shall have
three players in it at all times. The head of a player in the
front row shall not be next to the head of a player of the
same team.
(5)	(a) While a scrummage is forming,
F.K. o the shoulders of each player in the front
row must not be lower than his hips,
° all players in each front row must adopt a
normal stance,
o both feet must be on the ground and not
crossed,
© the hookers must be in a hooking position,
© a hooker’s foot must not be in front of the
forward feet of his props.
(b)	While the scrummage is taking place, players
in each front row must have their weight firmly
on at least one foot and be in a position for an
effective forward shove and the shoulders of
each player must not be lower than his hips.
(c)	When five players of a team for the scrummage
the two players in the second row must remain
bound to each other until the scrummage ends.
NOTES
(v) The restriction on the crossing of the feet of the
players in the front rows refers only to the feet of
54
Law 20
individual players. The feet of all players in the
front rows must be in a position for an effective
forward shove.
(vi)	A hooking position is where a hooker in the
scrummage has both feet on the ground, the
weight retained firmly on one foot and in a
position to hook or strike the ball.
(vii)	A flank forward in the second or third row of a
scrummage may pack at an angle provided he :s
properly bound If the ball is emerging from the
back of the scrummage and he moves outwards.
thereby preventing an opponent from advancing
around the scrummage, a penalty kick should be
awarded.
(viii)	In the event of a scrummage collapsing the
referee should whistle immediately so that
players do not continue to push.
Binding of Players
P. (6) (a) The players of each front row shall bind
firmly and continuously while the scrummage is
forming, while the ball is being put in and while
it is in the scrummage.
P- (b) The hooker may bind either over or under the
arms of his props but, in either case, he must
bind firmly around their bodies at or below the
level of the armpits. The props must bind the
hooker similarly. The hooker must not be
Law 20
supported so that he is not carrying any weight
on either foot.
p. (c) The outside (loose head) prop must either (i)
bind his opposing (tight head) prop with his left
arm inside the right arm of his opponent, or (ii)
place his left hand or forearm on his left thigh.
The tight-head prop must bind with his right arm
outside the left upper arm of his opposing loose-
head prop. He may grip the jersey of his
opposing loose-head prop with his right hand
but only to keep himself and the scrummage
steady and he must not exert a downward pull.
F.K. (d) All players in a scrummage, other than those in a
front row, must bind with at least one arm and
hand around the body of another player of the
same team.
F.K. (e) No outside player other than a prop may hold an
opponent with his outer arm.
Putting the Ball into the Scrummage
(7) When an infringement occurs the team not
responsible shall put in the ball. In all other circumstan-
ces, unless otherwise provided, the ball shall be put in by
the team which was moving forward prior to the stoppage
or, if neither team was moving forward, by the attacking
team.
NOTE
(ix)	It is permissible for the outside (loose-head)
prop to alter his binding with his left arm, within
56
Law 20
the provisions of Law 20 (6) (c), at any tiroe
during a scrummage.
F.K. (8) The ball shall be put in without delay as soon as
the two front rows have closed together. A team must
put in the ball when ordered to do so and on the side first
chosen.
NOTES
(x)	In the interests of safety, the referee has aurhorin
io permit delay in putting in the ball if a playerir
the front row has not succeeded in getting his
head down in the scrummage but otherwise he
should ensure that there is no delay.
M (xi) A free kick should be awarded if the referee is
satisfied that the delay by the team in puttingthe
ball in is deliberate and prejudices the other
team.
F.K. (9) The player putting in the ball shall
(a)	stand one metre from the scrummage an^rz
midway between the two front rows;
(b)	hold the ball with both hands midway between
the two front rows at a level midway between his
knee and ankle; ,
(c)	from that position put in the ball
• without any delay or without feint of
backward movement, i.e. with a single
forward movement, and
57
Law 20
© at a quick speed straight along the middle
line so that it first touches the ground
immediately beyond the width of the
nearer prop’s shoulders.
(10) Play in the scrummage begins when the ball
leaves the hands of the player putting it in.
(11) If the ball is put in and it comes out at either end
of the tunnel, it shall be put in again, unless a free kick or
penalty kick has been awarded.
If the ball comes out otherwise than at either end of the
tunnel and if a penalty kick has not been awarded play
shall proceed.
NOTE
(xii)	Advantage applies as soon as the ball has been
put into the scrummage and played.
Restrictions on Front Row Players
C.	(12) All front row players must place their feet so as to
allow a clear tunnel. A player must not prevent the ball
being put into the scrummage, or from touching the
ground at the required place.
(13)i No front row player may raise or advance a foot
until the ball has touched the ground.
NOTE
(xiii)	Until any foot is permitted to be raised or
advanced, that foot must be kept in the normal
position.
(14) When the ball has touched the ground, any foot
of any player in either front row may be used in an
attempt to gain possession of the ball subject to the
following:—
players in the front rows must not at any time during the ?
scrummage:—
(a)	raise both feet off the ground at the same time,
or ;
(b)	wilfully adopt any position or wilfully take any
action, by twisting or lowering the body or by
pulling on an opponent’s dress, which is likely to
cause the scrummage to collapse, or
(c)	wilfully kick the ball out of the tunnel in the
direction from which it is put in.
NOTES
(xiv)	The prohibition against a player in the front row
raising both feet off the ground at the same time
or striking at the ball with both feet applies during
the whole scrummage and not merely to the
period while the ball is being pul in.
(xv)	Referees must be strict in applying penalties for
wilfully kicking out. Repeated kicking out must
be treated as wilful.
(xvi)	When the referee orders the ball to be put in again ••
it must be put in by a player of the same team that
was first entitled to do so.
59
(xvii)	If the ball is about to pass straight through the
tunnel and a far prop advances a foot.so that the
ball passes behind the foot, the ball must be put
in again unless it has been lawfully played (i.e.
touched) by a player in the front row.
Restrictions on Players
K. (15) Any player who is not in either front row must
not play the ball while it is in the tunnel.
(16) A player must not:—
K. (a) return the ball into the scrummage, or
p. (b) handle the ball in the scrummage except in the
act of obtaining a “push over” try or touch-
down, or
P- (c) pick up the ball in the scrummage by hand or
legs, or
P- (d) wilfully collapse the scrummage, or
P- (e) wilfully fall or kneel in the scrummage.
P. (f) attempt to gain possession of the ball in the
scrummage with any part of the body except the
foot or lower leg.
NOTE
( xvm) Referees must be strict in penalising for the wilful
collapsing of scrummage as stated under
Law 20 (\5)(d) and Law 26 (3)fc)
K The pIayer Puttin8 in ^e ball and his immediate
pponent must not kick the ball while it is in the
60
Law 20
(18) A scrummage must not be wheeled beyond a
position where the middle line becomes parallel tothe|
touchline. The scrummage will be reformed at th-
' original mark, the ball to be put in by the same team
NOTE
(xix) If a player repeatedly infringes, he must be dealt
with under Law 26 (2).
Penalty: (a) For an infringement of paragraphs (2).
(4), (5), (6) (d) (e), (8), (9), (12), (13).
(14) (c). (15). (16) (a), and (17) a free kid
at the place of infringement.
(b) For an infringement of paragraphs (1).
(3). (6) (a) (b) (c). (14) (a) (b), and (16)(b)
(c)	(d) (e) (f) a penalty kick at the placed
infringement.
For Off-side at Scrummage see Law 24B.
LAW 21. RUCK.
A ruck, which can take place only in the field-of-pb
is formed when the ball is on the ground and one or mt-
players from each team are on their feet and in phyfc
contact, closing around the ball between them. Iftheb'
in a ruck is on or over the goal line the ruck is ended.
(1)	A player joining a ruck must have his heads-
shoulders no lower than his hips. He must bind with*
east one arm around the body of a player of his teanif
the ruck.
61
Law 21
Penalty:- Free kick at the place of infringement.
NOTE
(i)	The placing of a hand on another player is not
binding. Binding involves the whole arm. from
hand to shoulder.
(2)	A player must not:—
(a)	return the ball into the ruck, or
Penalty:- Freekick at the place of infringement.
(b)	handle the ball in the ruck except in the act of
securing a try or touch-down, or
(c) pick up the ball in the ruck by hand or legs, or
(d)	wilfully collapse the ruck, or
(e)	jump on top of other players in the ruck, or
(f)	wilfully fall or kneel in the ruck, or
(g)	while lying on the ground interfere in any way
with the ball in or emerging from the ruck. He
must do his best to roll away from it.
Penalty:— Penalty kick at the place of infringement '
For Off-side at Ruck see Law 24C.
LAW 22. MAUL.
A maul, which can take place only in the field-of-play,
ts formed by one or more players from each team on their
jeet and physical contact closing round a player who is
carrying the ball.
A maul ends when the ball is on the ground or the ball
62
Law 22
or a player carrying it emerges from the maul or whent
□ scrummage is ordered. If the ball in a maul is on or over
the goal line the maul is ended.
(1) A player joining a maul must have his headanj
shoulders no lower than his hips.
I I Penalty:— Free kick at the place of infringement.
(2) A player is not in physical contact unless he is
caught in or bouqd to the maul and not merely alongside
it.
(3)	A player must not:—
(a)	jump on top of players in a maul
(b)	wilfully collapse a maul
(c)	attempt to drag another player out of a maul.
Penalty:— Penalty kick at the place of infringement
(4) When the ball in a maul becomes unplayable a
scrummage shall be ordered and the team which was
moving forward immediately prior to the stoppage shall
put in the ball, or if neither team was moving forward.
the attacking team shall put it in.
NOTES
(i) Before whistling for a scrummage, the refers
should allow a reasonable time for the ball w
emerge from the maul, particularly if either tear*
is moving forward. If in his opinion the ball"1
probably not emerge from the maul withou'
63
Law 23
delay, he should not allow prolonged wrestling
for the ball but should order a scrummage.
(li) If any player in a maul goes to the ground.
including being on one knee or both knees or is
sitting on the ground, a scrummage is to be
ordered unless the ball is immediately available
for the continuation of play.
For Off-side at Maul see Law 24C.
LAW 23. TOUCH AND LINE-OUT.
A.	Touch.
(1) The ball is in touch
• when it is not being carried by a player and
it touches a touch line or the ground or a
person or object on or beyond it, or
® when it is carried by a player and it or the
player carrying it touches a touch line or
the ground beyond it.
(2) If the ball is not in touch and has not crossed the
plane of the touchline, a player who is in touch may kick
the ball or propel it with his hand but not hold it.
NOTES
(i) (a) If the ball pitches directly into touch from a
kick-off and the opposing team elects to accept
the kick, the line-out shall be formed
64
Law 23
(i) at the half-way line, or
(ii)	where the ball went into touch if the place be
nearer to the kicker's goal-line.
(b) If the ball pitches directly into touch froma
drop-out and the opposing team elects to accept
the kick, the line-out shall be formed where the
ball went into touch.
(c)	"pitching directly into touch" means that
the ball, having been kicked, first touches the
touch line or the ground or a person or object on
or beyond it and has not touched or been
touched in flight by an opponent or the referee
(ii) On or beyond the touch line or touch-in-goal
line refers to all areas except the playing area.
(iii)	It is not touch or touch-in-goal when a player
with both feet in the playing area catches the
ball, even though the ball before being caught
has crossed the touch line or touch-in-goal line.
Such a player may deflect or tap the ball into the
playing area provided it is not propelled for-
ward. If a player jumps and catches the ball his
feet must land in the playing area.
B.	Line-out.
The line-of-touch is an imaginary line in the field-°l
play at right angles to the touch line through the plaCl
where the ball is to be thrown in.
65
Law 23
Formation of Line-out.
F.K. (1) A line-out is formed by at least two players from
each team lining up in single lines parallel to the line-of-
touch in readiness for the ball to be thrown in between
them. The team throwing in the ball shall determine the
maximum number of players from either team who so
line up. Such players are those “in the line-out”, unless
excluded below.
NOTE
(iv)	Prior to the beginning of the line-out. any
offence, including wilfully failing to form a
line-out, or to line up at least two players, should
be dealt with as misconduct under Law 26
(2) Until the ball is thrown in each player in the
----------------—---------- the next
physical
f.k. r ...............
line-out must stand at least one metre from
player of his team in the line-out and avoid
contact with any other player.
NOTE
(v) The distance of “at least one metre'
between players who are deemed to be facing
the touch line and standing upright with their
feet together. Players may adopt any stance and
face in any direction.
‘ The line-out stretches from five metres from the
touch line from which the ball is being thrown into a
position fifteen metres from that touch line.
means
66
Law 23
F.K. (4) Any player of either team who is further than
fifteen metres from the touch line when the line-on
begins is not in the line-out.
F.K. (5) A clear space of 500 millimetres must be left
between the two lines of players.
NOTES
(vi) The distance of 500 millimetres for the clear
space is between the shoulders of the players
when standing upright.
(vii) If. at a formed line-out. the team throwingin the
ball line up less than the normal number their
opponents must be given a reasonable oppor-
tunity to conform. Opposing players who are
retiring for that purpose must do so directly and
without delay to a line ten metres behind the
line-of-touch. Loiterers must be penalised.
Subject to this, when the line-out is ended
players so retiring may rejoin play, even if they
have not reached the ten metres line.
Throwing in the Ball
(6) When the ball is in touch the place at which il
must be thrown in is as follows:—
• when the ball goes into touch fro1113
penalty kick, free kick, or from a ki<*
within twenty-two metres of the kickers
67
Law 23
goal line, at the place where it touched or
crossed the touch line.
• when the ball pitches directly into touch
after having been kicked otherwise than as
stated above, opposite the place from
which the ball w-as kicked or at the place
where it touched or crossed the touch line
if that place be nearer to the kicker's goal
line, or
• on all other occasions when the ball is in
touch, at the place where it touched or
crossed the touch line.
In each instance the place is where the ball last crossed
the touch line before being in touch.
(7) The ball must be thrown in at the line-out by an
opponent of the player whom it last touched, or by whom
it was carried, before being in touch. In the event of
doubt as to which team should throw in the ball, the
attacking team shall do so.
F.K. (8) The ball must be thrown in without delay and
without feint.
(9) A quick throw in from touch without waiting for
the players to form a line-out is permissible provided the
ball that went into touch is used, it has been handled only
by the players and it is thrown in correctly.
(10) The ball may be brought into play by a quick
68
Law 23
throw-in or at a formed line-out. In either event the
player must throw in the ball
0 at the place indicated, and
o so that it first touches the ground or
touches or is touched by a player at least
five metres from the touch line along the
line-of-touch, and
• while throwing in the ball, he must not put
any part of either foot in the field-of-play
If any of the foregoing is infringed, the opposing team
shall have the right, at its option, to throw in the ball or to
take a scrummage.
If on the second occasion the ball is not thrown in
correctly a scrummage shall be formed and the ball shall
be put in by the team which threw it in on the first
occasion.
NOTES
I(viii) At a quick throw-in the “position of fifteen
metres from touch” requirement does not
apply.
(ix)	If a player wilfully throws the ball in not straight
a penalty kick should be awarded.
Beginning and End of Line-out
u/1?) l,ne‘Out begins when the ball leaves the
hands of the player throwing it in.
(12) The line-out ends when
69
Law 23
© a ruck or maul is taking place and all feet of
players in the ruck or maul have moved
beyond the line-of-touch, or
© a player carrying the ball leaves the line-
out, or
• the ball has been passed, knocked back or
kicked from the line-out, or
• the ball is thrown beyond a position fifteen
metres from the touch line, or
• the ball becomes unplayable.
NOTES
(x)	If a player participating in a line-out hands the
ball to another player who is peeling-off from
the line-out, the line-out ends when the second
player takes the ball.
(xi)	When the ball has been passed or knocked back
from a line-out, the line-out is ended. Players in
front of a player of their own team who receives
the ball from the line-out may be off-side but
they should only be penalised under Law 24A if
they play the ball or obstruct an opponent in any
way.
(xii)	A ruck or maul has not moved from the
line-of-touch unless all the feet of the players in
the ruck or maul have moved beyond that line.
(xin) Any movement of a player beyond a position
70
Law 23
fifteen metres from the touch line must be solely
for the purpose of catching or jumping to catch
the ball. The player may move in-field in an
attempt to catch the ball only after it leaves the
hand of the player throwing it in.
(xiv)	A player acting as scrum-half may not stand or
move beyond a position fifteen metres from the
touch line before the ball has passed that
position unless he moves to anticipate a long
throw-in but he may so move only in accord-
ance with the conditions in the preceding Note
(xiii).
Peeling Off
“Peeling off’ occurs when a player (or players) moves
from his position in the line-out for the purpose of
catching the ball when it has been passed or knocked back
by another of his team in the line-out.
F.K. (13) When the ball is in touch players who approach
the line-of-touch must always be presumed to do so for
the purpose of forming a line-out. Except in a peeling off
movement such players must not leave the line-of-touch.
or the line-out when formed, until the line-out has
ended. A player must not begin to peel off until the ball
has left the hands of the player throwing it in.
Exception:—At a quick throw-in, when a player may
come to the line-of-touch and retire from that position
without penalty.
71
Law 23
(14)	In a peeling off movement a player must move
parallel and close to the line-out. He must keep moving
until a ruck or maul is formed and he joins it or the
line-out ends.
Restrictions on Players in Line-out
(15)	Before the ball has been thrown in and has
touched the ground or has touched or been touched by a
player, any player in the line-out must not
P. (a) be off-side, or
p (b) push, charge, shoulder or bind with or in any
way hold another player of either team, or
P. (c) use any other player as a support to enable him
to jump for the ball, or
F.K. (d) stand within five metres of the touch line or
prevent the ball from being thrown five metres.
(16)	After the ball has touched the ground or touched
or been touched by a player, any player in the line-out
must not
(a)	be off-side, or
P* (b) hold, push, shoulder or obstruct an opponent
not holding the ball, or
(c) charge an opponent except in an attempt to
tackle him or to play the ball.
■K. (17) EXCCpt when jumping for the ball or peeling off,
each player in the line-out must remain at least one metre
from the next player of his team until the ball has
72
Law 23
touched or has been touched by a player or has touched
the ground.
F.K. (18) Except when jumping for the ball or peeling off,a
clear space of 500 millimetres must be left between the
two lines of players until the ball has touched or has been
touched by a player or has touched the ground
NOTE
(xv)	The act of jumping for the ball can include a step
if it is a simple movement in endeavouringio
catch the ball.
.K. (19) A player in the line-out may move into the space
between the touch line and the five metres mark onlj
when the ball has been thrown beyond him and, if he
does so, he must not move towards his goal line before
the line-out ends, except in a peeling off movement.
P- (20) Until the line-out ends, no player may move
beyond a position fifteen metres from the touch line
except as allowed when the ball is thrown beyond that
position in accordance with the Exception following La*
24D(1)(J).
NOTE
(xvi)	I| the ball in a line-out becomes unplay^
otherwise than as a result of an infringements
which a penalty is prescribed, a scrurmW
should be ordered.
73
Law 23
Restrictions on Players not in Line-out
(21) Players of either team who are not in the line-out
may not advance from behind the line-out and take the
ball from the throw-in except only
• a player at a quick throw-in, or
• a player advancing at a long throw-in, or
• a player “participating in the line-out” (as
defined in Section D of Law 24) who may
run into a gap in the line-out and take the
ball provided he does not charge or
obstruct any player in the line-out.
Penalty:-
(a) For an infringement of paragraphs (1), (2),
(3), (4), (5), (8), (13), (14), (15) (d), (17),
(18), or( 19), a free kick fifteen metres from
the touch line along the line-of-touch.
(b)	For an infringement of paragraphs (15) (a)
(b) (c), (16), or (20), a penalty kick fifteen
metres from the touch line along the line-of-
touch.
(c)	For an infringement of paragraph (21) a
penalty kick on the offending team’s off-
side line (as defined in Law 24D) opposite
the place of infringement, but not less than
fifteen metres from the touch line.
lace of scrummage: — Any scrummage taken or
ordered under this Law or ds the result of any
ln ringement in a line-out shall be formed fifteen metres
74
Law 23
from the touch line along the line-of-touch. For off sift
at Line-out see Law 24D.
NOTE
(xvii)	If a player repeatedly infringes, he must be dealt
with under Law 26 (2).
LAW 24. OFF-SIDE.
Off-side means that a player is in a position in which hi
is out of the game and is liable to penalty.
In general play the player is in an off-side position
because he is in front of the ball when it has been hi
played by another player of his team.
In play at scrummage, ruck, maul or line-out the plow
is off-side because he remains or advances in front of the
line or place stated in, or otherwise infringes, the relevant
sections of this Law.
A. Off-side in General Play.
(1)	A player is in an off-side position if the ball ha*
been
• kicked, or
• touched, or
• is being carried
by one of his team behind him.
(?) There is no penalty for being in an oh'5'^e
position unless:—
(a) the player plays the ball or obstructs an
opponent, or
75
Law 24
(b) he approaches or remains within ten metres ol
an opponent waiting to play the ball or the place
where the ball pitches.
Where no opponent is waiting to play the ball
but one arrives as the ball pitches, a player in an
off-side position must not obstruct or interfere
with him.
Exceptions:—
(i)	When an off-side player cannot avoid being
touched by the ball or by a player carrying it. he
is "accidently off-side”. Play should be allowed
to continue unless the infringing team obtains an
advantage, in which case a scrummage should be
formed at that place.
(ii)	A player who receives an unintentional throw-
forward is not off-side.
(iii)	If, because of the speed of the game, an off-side
player finds himself unavoidably within ten
metres of an opponent waiting to play the ball or
the place where the ball pitches, he shall not be
penalised provided he retires without delay and
without interfering with the opponent.
Penalty:— Penalty kick at the place of infringement, or.
at the option of the non-offending team, a
scrummage at the place where the ball was
last played by the offending team. If the latter
place is In-goal, the penalty kick shall be
taken or the scrummage shall be formed five
76
Law 24
metres from the goal line on a line through the
place.
NOTES
(i)	A penalty for off-side should not be given at
once if the non-offending team gains an advan-
tage or if it appears likely to gain an advantage:
but if the expected advantage is not gained, the
penalty should in all cases be awarded even ifitis
necessary to bring play back for that purpose to
the place of infringement.
(ii)	When a player knocks on and an off-side player
of the same team next plays the ball, a penalty
for off-side should not be awarded unless the
off-side deprives the non-offending team of an
advantage.
(iii)	A player can be off-side in his In-goal.
(iv)	If a player hands the ball to another player of his
team in front of him. the second player is
off-side. A scrummage for "accidental off-side
should be awarded unless it is considered the
player was wilfully off-side in which case a 1
penalty kick should be awarded.
(v)	The referee should whistle at once if an off-side
player who cannot be placed on-side charges
within ten metres of an opponent waiting to '
receive the ball. Delav may prove dangerous to
the latter player.
77
Law 24
Where there is no opponent waiting to play
the ball but one arrives as the ball pitches, an
off-side player who is near such opponent must
not obstruct or interfere with him in any way
whatsoever before he is put on-side.
(vi)	If an attacking player kicks the ball which is
misfielded by an opponent and the ball is then
played by another attacking player in an off-side
position within ten metres of the opponent, a
penalty kick should be awarded.
(vii)	If an attacking player kicks the ball which is
charged down by an opponent and another
attacking player within ten metres of the opp-
onent then plays the bail, play should be allowed
to continue. The opponent was not “waiting to
play the ball' and the second attacking player is
therefore on-side under Law 25 (2).
(viii)	Law 24A (2)(b) also applies where the ball has
struck a goal-post or cross-bar. Off-side players
must not approach or remain within ten metres
oi an opponent waiting to play the ball or the
place where the ball pitches.
Off-side at Scrummage.
The term “off-side line" means a line parallel to the goal
lnes through the hindmost foot of the player's team in the
scrummage.
78
Law 24
While a scrummage is forming or is taking place:—
(1) A player is off-side if
(a)	he joins it from his opponents’ side, or
(b)	he not being in the scrummage nor the player of
either team who puts the ball in the scrummage
o fails to retire behind the off-side line or to
his goal line whichever is the nearer, or
o places either foot in front of the off-side
line while the ball is in the scrummage.
A player behind the ball may leave a scrummage
provided he retires immediately behind the off-
side line.
If he wishes to rejoin the scrummage, he must do
so behind the ball.
He may not play the ball as it emerges between
the feet of his front row if he is in front of the
off-side line.
Exception:— The restrictions on leaving the
scrummage in front of the off-side line do
not apply to a player taking part in
‘‘wheeling” a scrummage providing he
immediately plays the ball.
(2)	A player is off-side if he, being the player of
either team who puls the ball in the scrummage, remains
or places either foot in front of the ball while it is in the
scrummage.
(3)	A player is off-side if he, being the immediate
opponent of the player putting in the ball, takes up a
79
Law 24
position on or moves to the opposite side of the
scrummage in front of the off-side line.
Penalty:— Penalty kick at the place of infringement.
NOTES
(ix)	Players must retire without delay to the scrum-
mage off-side line when a scrummage is
forming. Loiterers must be penalised.
(x)	Any player of either team may at a particular
scrummage be the player who puts in the ball or
who takes up position as scrum half when his
opponent is putting in the ball; but such player is
at that scrummage the only player of his team
who has the benefit of Law 24B (2).
(xi)	If the scrummage has turned or wheeled the t rue
concept of the scrummage off-side line cannot
be applied. Players not in the scrummage except
the scrum half shall, however, not proceed
beyond the nearer scrummage off-side line. In
these circumstances any player whose position
in the scrummage is such that his feet represent
the hindmost feet in that particular scrummage,
if he has continued binding throughout the turn
or wheel, is permitted to detach himself from the
scrummage provided he immediately picks up
the ball which is at his feet. On his so doing the
scrummage is at an end.
80
Law 24
C.	Off-side at Ruck or Maul.
The term “off-side line” means a line parallel to the goal-
lines through the hindmost foot of the player's team in the
ruck or maul.
(1)	Ruck or Maul otherwise than at line-out.
While a ruck or maul is taking place (including a ruck or
maul which continues after a line-out has ended) a player
is off-side if he:—
(a)	joins it from his opponents’ side, or
(b)	joins it in front of the ball, or
(c)	does not join the ruck or maul but fails to retire
behind the off-side line without delay, or
(d)	unbinds from the ruck or leaves the maul and
does not immediately either rejoin it behind the
ball or retire behind the off-side line, or
(e)	advances beyond the off-side line with either
foot and does not rejoin the ruck or maul.
Penalty:— Penalty kick at place of infringement.
(2)	Ruck or Maul at line-out.
The term "participating in the line-out" has the same
meaning as in Section D of this Law. A player
participating in the line-out is not obliged to join or
remain in the ruck or maul and if he is not in the ruck or
ZlacU a c10”t‘n.ues lo participate in the line-out until it
maid? v a line-out is in progress and a ruck or
mau’takes place, a player is off-side if he:—
81
Law 24
(a)	joins the ruck or maul from his opponents side,
or
(b)	joins it in front of the ball, or
(c)	being a player who is participating in the line-out
and is not in the ruck or maul, docs not retire
and remain at the off-side line defined in this
Section, or
Penalty:— Penalty kick fifteen metres from the
touch line along the line-of-touch.
(d)	being a player who is not participating in the
line-out, remains or advances with either foot in
front of the off-side line defined in Section D of
this Law.
Penalty:— Penalty kick on the offending team’s off-
side line (as defined in Section D of this
Law) opposite the place of infringement
but not less than fifteen metres from the
touch line.
NOTE
(xii)	When the line-out has ended but the ruck or
maul is still taking place, a player is off-side if he
infringes Section (1) or these Laws.
D.	Off-side at Line-out.
term “participating in the line-out” refers
exclusively to the following players:—
82
Law 24
o those players who are in the line-out, and
o the player who throws in the ball, and
o his immediate opponent who may have the
option of throwing in the ball, and
o one other player of either team who takes
up position to receive the ball if it is passed
or knocked back from the line-out.
All other players are not participating in the line-out.
The term “off-side line" means a line ten metres behind
the line-of-touch and parallel to the goal lines or, if the
goal line be nearer than ten metres to the line-of-touch, the
“off-side line” is the goal line.
Off-side while participating in line-out
(1) A participating player is off-side if:—
(a)	before the ball has touched a player or the
ground he wilfully remains or advances with
either foot in front of the line-of-touch, unless
he advances solely in the act of jumping for the
ball, or
(b)	after the ball has touched a player or the ground.
if he is not carrying the ball, he advances with
either foot in front of the ball, unless he is
lawfully tackling or attempting to tackle an
opponent who is participating in the line-out-
Such tackle or attempt to tackle must, however,
start from his side of the ball, or
Law 24
(c)	in a peeling off movement he fails to keep
moving close to the line-out until a ruck or maul
is formed and he joins it or the line-out ends, or
(d)	before the line-out ends he moves beyond a
position fifteen metres from the touch line.
Exception:— Players of the team throwing in the bail
may move beyond a position of fifteen
metres from the touch line for a long
throw-in to them.
They may do so only when the ball
leaves the hand of the player throwing it in
and if they do so their opponents par-
ticipating in the line-out may follow them.
If players so move and the ball is not
thrown to or beyond them they must be
penalised for off-side.
Penalty:— Penalty kick fifteen metres from the
touch line along the line-of-touch.
NOTES
(xiii)	Players who advance beyond the off-side line or
who move beyond a position fifteen metres from
the touch line in the expectation of a long
throw-in must be penalised if. for any reason,
the ball is not thrown beyond that position.
(xiv)	A player jumping unsuccessfully for the ball who
crosses the line-of-touch should be given an
opportunity to retire before being penalised.
84
Law 24
(xv)	The referee should be strict in dealing with those
players who, while not disputing possession of
the ball in the line-out, advance to an off-side
position whether intentionally or not.
(2)	The player throwing in the ball and his immediate
opponent must:—
(a) remain within five metres of the touch line, or
(b) retire to the off-side line, or
(c)	join the line-out after the ball has been thrownin
five metres, or
(d)	move into position to receive the ball if it is
passed or knocked back from the line-out
provided no other player is occupying that
position at that line-out.
NOTE
(xvi)	If a player other than the wing-threequarter
throws in the ball from touch, the wing-
threequarter must retire to the off-side line, or
join the line-out.
Off-side while not participating in line-out
(3)	A player who is not participating is off-side if
before the line-out has ended he advances or remain5
with either foot in front of the off-side line.
Exception:— Players of the team throwing in the ball
who are not participating in the line-out
85
Law 24
may advance for a long throw-in to them
beyond the line-out. They may do so only
when the ball leaves the hand of the
player throwing in the ball and, if they do,
their opponents may advance to meet
them. If players so advance for a long
throw-in to them and the ball is not
thrown to them they must be penalised
for off-side.
NOTE
(xvii)	If a player not participating in the line-out is
offside, the referee should not whistle
immediately if the opposing team is likely to gain
an advantage. He should apply the advantage
Law in all such cases.
Players returning to “on-side” position
(4)	A player is not obliged, before throwing in the
all, to wait until players of his team have returned to or
behind the line-out but such players are off-side unless
they return to an on-side position without delay.
Penalty:— Penalty kick on the offending team’s off-
side line opposite the place of
infringement, but not less than fifteen
metres from the touch line.
86
Law 24
NOTE
(xviii) Scrummage, ruck, maul and line-out-where
these Laws state a line which determines the
off-side position such line stretches continu-
ously from touch line to touch line.
LAW 25. ON-SIDE.
On-side means that a player is in the Game and not
Hable to penalty for off-side.
Player made on-side by action of his team
(1)	Any player who is off-side in general play,
including an off-side player who is within ten metres of
an opponent waiting to play the ball or where the ball
pitches and is retiring as required, becomes on-side asa
result of any of the following actions of his team:—
• when the off-side player has retired behind
the player of his team who last kicked,
touched or carried the ball, or
• when one of his team carrying the ball has
run in front of him, or
• when one of his team has run in front of
him after coming from the place or from
behind the place where the ball ^as
kicked.
In order to put the off-side player on-side,
this other player must be in the playin8
87
Law 25
area. But he is not debarred from following
up in touch or touch-in-goal.
NOTE
(i)	An off-side player who is within ten metres of an
opponent waiting to play the ball or where a ball
pitches, must retire and continue to do so up to
ten metres until he is put on-side. If he does not
do so, he must be penalised.
Player made on-side by action of opposing team
(2)	Any player who is off-side in general play, except
an off-side player within ten metres of an opponent
waiting to play the ball or where the ball pitches,
becomes on-side as a result of any of the following
actions;—
• when an opponent carrying the ball has
run five metres, or
• when an opponent kicks or passes the ball.
or
• when an opponent intentionally touches
the ball and does not catch or gather it.
An off-side player within ten metres of an opponent
waiting to play the ball or where the ball pitches, cannot
be put on-sidc by any action of his opponents. Any other
off-side player in general play is always put on-side when
an opponent plays the ball.
88
Law 25
Player retiring at scrummage, ruck, maul or line-out
(3)	A player who is in an off-side position when a
scrummage, ruck, maul or line-out is forming or taking
place and is retiring as required by Law 24 (Off-side)
becomes on-side:—
• when an opponent carrying the ball has
run five metres, or
• when an opponent has kicked the ball.
An off-side player in this situation is not put on-side
when an opponent passes the ball.
NOTES
(ii)	The referee should be careful to ensure that no
benefit under Law 25 (2) is gained by loiterers
who wilfully remain in an off-side position and
thereby prevent opponents from running with.
kicking, passing or otherwise playing the ball
(iii)	When a team has gained quick possession Iroma |
scrummage, ruck, maul or line-out and starts a
passing movement, opponents who are retiring ,
must not be allowed to interfere with the
movement unless the conditions of Law 25 (3)
exist. Referees should be strict in applying this
LAW 26. FOUL PLAY.
thefoft^^ actl0n by a player which is contrary to
n spirit of the Game and includes obstruction
89
Law 26
unfair play, misconduct, dangerous play, unsporting
behaviour, retaliation and repeated infringements.
Obstruction
(1) It is illegal for any player:—
(a)	who is running for the ball to charge or push an
opponent running for the ball, except shoulder
to shoulder,
(b)	who is in an off-side position wilfully to run or
stand in front of another player of his team who
is carrying the ball, thereby preventing an
opponent from reaching the latter player,
(c)	who is carrying the ball after it has come out of a
scrummage, ruck, maul or line-out, to attempt
to force his way through the players of his team
in front of him,
(d)	who is an outside player in a scrummage or ruck
to prevent an opponent from advancing round
the scrummage or ruck.
Penalty:— Penalty kick at the place of infringement.
A penalty try may be awarded.
NOTES
(i)	There are no circumstances in which a player
carrying the ball can be penalised for obstruc-
tion.
(ii)	The referee should note that: —
(a)	The intention of this Law as regards the
90
Law 26
penalties to be imposed for serious forms of
obstruction must be applied.
(b)	If a player is guilty of charging or obstruct-
ing or holding an opponent who is not carrying
the ball or any other form of foul play, before
any other action is taken the player must at once
be cautioned or sent off. If he offends a second |
time, the referee has no alternative to sending
him off. If the offence prevents a try which
probably would otherwise have been scored, a
penalty try must be awarded.
(c)	The intention of the International Board is
that if the referee has any doubt as to the balance
of probability, he should give the benefit of the
doubt in favour of the non-offending team and
award the penalty try.
Unfair Play, Repeated Infringements
(2) It is illegal for any player:—
(a)	deliberately to play unfairly or wilfully infringe
any Law of the Game,
(b)	wilfully to waste time,
(c)	wilfully to knock or throw the ball from the
playing area into touch, touch-in-goal or over
the dead-ball line.
(d)	to infringe repeatedly any Law of the game.
Penalty:— Penalty kick at place of infringement.
A penalty try may be awarded.
91
Law 26
For offences under (2) (c) occurring in
In-goal, Law 14 penaity (e) applies. For
offence^ under (2) (d) a player may be
cautioned and, if he repeats the offence,
must be ordered off.
Misconduct, Dangerous Play
(3)	It is illegal for any player:—
(a)	to strike an opponent,
(b)	wilfully to hack or kick an opponent or trip him
with the foot, or to trample on an opponent
lying on the ground.
(c)	to tackle early, or late or dangerously, including
the action known as a “stiff arm tackle’’,
(d)	who is not running for the ball wilfully to charge
or obstruct an opponent who has just kicked the
ball,
(e)	to hold, push, charge, obstruct or grasp an
opponent not holding the ball except in a
scrummage, ruck or maul,
(Except in a scrummage or ruck the dragging
away of a player lying close to the ball is
permitted. Otherwise pulling any part of the
clothing of an opponent is holding.)
(f)	in the front row of a scrummage to form down
some distance from the opponents and rush
against them,
(8) wilfully to cause a scrummage, ruck or maul to
collapse,
92
Law 26
(h) while the ball is out of play to molest, obstructor
in any way interfere with an opponent or be
guilty of any form of misconduct.
(i)	to commit any misconduct on the playing area
which is prejudicial to the spirit of good
sportmanship.
Penalty:— A player guilty of misconduct and
dangerous play shall either be ordered off
or else cautioned that he will be sent off if1
he repeats the offence. For a similar
offence after caution, the player must be
sent off.
In addition to a caution or ordering off a
penalty try or a penalty kick shall be
awarded as follows:—
(i) If the offence prevents a try which would j
otherwise probably have been scored, a
penalty try shall be awarded.
(ii)	The place for a penalty kick shall be:—
(a)	For offences other than under
paragraphs (d) and (h), at the place of .
infringement.
(b)	For an infringement of (d) the non-
offending team shall have the option of
taking the kick at the place of infringement .
or where the ball alights, and if the ball (
alights
• >n touch, the mark is fifteen metres fro*
the touch line on a line parallel to the goa
93
Law 26
lines through the place where it went into
touch,or
o within fifteen metres from the touch line, it
is fifteen metres from the touch line on a
line parallel to the goal lines through the
place where it alighted, or
o in In-goal, touch-in-goal, or over or on the
dead-ball line, it is five metres from the
• goal line on a line parallel to the touch line
through the place where it crossed the goal
line or fifteen metres from the touch line
whichever is the greater.
When the offence takes place in touch the
“place of infringement” in the optional
penalty award is fifteen metres from the
touch line opposite to where the offence
took place.
If the offence takes place in touch-in-goal,
the ‘place of infringement’ in the optional
penalty award is in the field-of-play five
metres from the goal-line and fifteen metres
from the touch-line.
(c)	For an offence under (h), at any place
where the ball would next have been
brought into play if the offence had not
occurred, or, if that place is on or beyond
the touch line, fifteen metres from that
place, on a line parallel to the goal lines.
(iii)	For an infringement in In-goal, a penalty
94
Law 26
kick is to be awarded as provided for under
Law 14 Penalties.
(iv)	For an offence under Law 26 (3) (h), rhe
penalty kick is to be taken at whichever is
the place where play would restart, that is
o at the twenty-two metres line (at any point
the non-offending team may select), or
o at the centre of the half-way line, or
o if a scrummage five metres from the goal
line would otherwise have been awarded,
at that place fifteen metres from the touch
line on a line five metres from and parallel
to the goal line, whichever is the greater.
(v)	For an offence which occurs outside the
playing area while the ball is still in play
and which is not otherwise covered in the
foregoing, the penalty kick shall be
awarded in the playing area fifteen metres
from the touch line and opposite to where
the offence took place,
(vi)	For an offence reported by a Touch-Judge
under Law 6B(6) a penalty kick may be
awarded where the offence occurred oral
the place where play would restart.
NOTES
(iii)	Playing the man without the ball" and all forms
of dangerous tackling including early, late and
95
Law 26
stiff arm “tackling” or attempting to tackle a
player around the neck or head or above the line
of the shoulders MUST be punished severely
and a penalty awarded in all such cases. Players
who wilfully resort to this type of foul must be
sent off the field. A penalty try must be awarded
if the late tackle prevents a PROBABLE try.
(iv)	It is for the referee to decide what constitutes a
dangerous tackle, having regard to the circum-
stances, e.g., the apparent intentions of the
tackler, or the nature of the tackle, or the
defenceless position of the player being tackled
or knocked over, which may be the cause of
serious injury.
(v)	The following actions constitute prima facie
dangerous play: —
(a)	If a player charges or knocks down an
opponent carrying the ball without any attempt
to grasp him (as in a tackle):
(b)	If a player taps or pulls the foot or feet of
another player who is jumping for the ball.
(vi)	A player shall not “take the Law into his own
hands” nor wilfully do anything that is dan-
gerous to an opponent even if the latter is
infringing the Laws.
(vii)	If a player is obstructed after kicking the ball and
the ball strikes a goal post, the optional penalty
should be awarded where the ball alights after
96
Law 26
bouncing off the post.
(viii)	If a penalty kick has been awarded and. before
the kick has been taken, the offending team
infringes Law 26 (3) (h), the referee should
(a)	caution or send off the player guilty of ;
misconduct and
(b)	in addition advance the mark for the penalty
kick ten metres, this to cover both the original
infringement and the misconduct.
(ix)	If a penalty kick is awarded to a team and before
the kick is taken, a player of that team infringes
Law 26 (3) (h), the referee should
(a)	caution or send off the player guilty of (
misconduct and
(b)	declare the penalty kick void and
(c)	award a penalty kick against the team last
guilty of misconduct.
(x)	The referee should note that: —
(ci) Repeated infringement is a question of fact
and not a question of whether the offender
intended to infringe.
(b) If the same player has to be penalised
repeatedly he should be dealt with under Law 26
(2) (d).
(c)	Foul play must not be condoned.
(d)	Repeated infringements arise mainly in
connection with Scrummages, Off-side and
97
Law 26
Line-outs. If a player has been penalised for
infringing one of these Laws several times in the
same match, he should be cautioned and, if he
repeats the offence, sent off.
(e)	11 is a question for the referee whether or not
a series of the same offences by different players
of a team amounts to repeated infringements. If
he considers that it does, he should give a
general warning to that team and. if the offence
is repeated, he must send the offending player
off the field.
(f)	In deciding the number of offences which
should constitute “repeated infringement" the
referee should always apply a strict standard in
representative and senior matches. On the third
occasion a caution must be given.
In the case of junior or minor matches where
ignorance of the Laws and lack of skill may
account for many infringements, a less strict
standard may be applied.
(xi)	The International Board and the Unions in
membership with it will fully support referees in
the strict and uniform enforcement of the Laws
as to repeated infringements.
Player Ordered Off.
A player who is ordered off shall take no further part
,n the match. When a player is ordered off, the referee
shall, as soon as possible after the match, send to the
98
Law 26
Union or other disciplinary body having jurisdiction
over the match a report naming the player and describing
the circumstances which necessitated the ordering off
Such report shall be considered by the Union or other
disciplinary body having jurisdiction over the match who
shall take such action and inflict such punishment as they
see fit.
Under Law 26 when a player is ordered off the
playing enclosure or the match is abandoned under
Law 26 in a match played under the jurisdiction of
the R.F.U. the procedure shall be as follows: The
referee shall send his report within 48 hours to:
(a) The Constituent Body to which the player's
Club is allocated.
(b) The R.F. U. when two or more players are
ordered off together for offences arising
from their involvement in the same incident
and the Clubs for which they were playing
are allocated to separate Constituent
Bodies.
(c)	The R. F. U. if the Club for whom the player I
was playing is not allocated to a Constituent
Body.
(d)	The Union for which the player was
playing in International matches.
Note: In all the above cases the Referee shall send
a copy of his report to his own Referee Society.
(e)	The Constituent Body in whose area the
99
Law 26
match was played if he is not a member of a
recognised Referee Society.
The Report will then be dealt with by the R. F.U.
under the powers in that behalf contained in Bye-
Law 13 (g) or by the Constituent Body concerned
under the powers delegated to it under the powers
contained in Bye-Law 13 (c) (see “Delegation of
Powers” in R.F.U. Handbook).
Club secretaries shall report to their Constituent
Bodies, within 4 days, the name and address of
any player of their Club who has been ordered off
the playing enclosure. This applies irrespective of
whether the referee is a member of a Society or
not.
In the event of an abandoned match the Referee
should:—
(i)	identify the individual culprits who alone
will be disciplined under Law 26.
(ii)	abandon the game under Law 6.
(iii)	explain to both Captains the reasons why
he is abandoning it.
LAW 27. PENALTY KICK.
A penalty kick is a kick awarded to the non-offending
team as stated in the Laws. It may be taken by any player
°J the non-offending team and by any form of kick
100
Law 27
provided that the kicker, if holding the ball, must propel
it out of his hands or, if the ball is on the ground, he must
propel it a visible distance from the mark. He may keep
his hands on the ball while kicking it.
(1) The non-offending team has the option of taking
a scrummage at the mark and shall put in the ball.
(2)	When a penalty kick is taken the following shall
apply:—
(a) The kick must be taken without undue delay.
(b) The kick must be taken at or behind the markon .
a line through the mark and the kicker may place
the ball for a place kick. If the place prescribed
by the Laws for the award of a penalty kick is
within five metres of the opponents’ goal line,
the mark for the penalty kick or a scrummage
taken instead of it shall be five metres from the
goal line on a line through that place.
(c) The kicker may kick the ball in any direction and
he may play the ball again, without any restriction,
except that if he has indicated to the referee that
he intends to attempt a kick at goal or has taken
any action indicating such intention he must not
kick the ball in any other way. A player kicking
for touch may only punt or drop kick the ball
Any indication of intention is irrevocable.
(d)	The kicker’s team except the placer for a place
101
Law 27
kick must be behind the ball until it has been
kicked.
(e)	The opposing team must run without delay (and
continue to do so while the kick is being taken
and while the ball is being played by the kicker’s
team) to or behind a line parallel to the goal lines
and ten metres from the mark, or to their own
goal line if nearer to the mark. If a kick at goal is
taken they must there remain motionless with
their hands by their sides until the kick has been
taken.
Retiring players will not be penalised if their
failure to retire ten metres is due to the rapidity
with which the kick has been taken, but they
must not stop retiring and enter the game until
an opponent carrying the ball has run five
metres.
(f)	The opposing team must not prevent the kick or
interfere with the kicker in any way. This applies
to actions such as wilfully carrying, throwing or
kicking the ball away out of reach of the kicker.
Penalty:—
• For an infringement by the kicker’s
team—a scrummage at the mark.
• For an infringement by the opposing
team—a penalty kick ten metres in front of
the mark or five metres from the goal line
whichever is the nearer, on a line through
the mark. Any player of the non-offending
team may take the kick.
102
Law 27
NOTES
(i)	The kick must be taken with the ball which was
in play unless the referee decides that the ball is
defective.
(ii)	The Note (ix) under Law 13 applies also in the
case of a penalty kick.
(iii)	Aplayertakingapenalty kick may not bouce the
ball on his knee, the kick must be made with the
foot or lower leg. If a player fails to kick the ball.
a scrummage should be ordered.
(iv)	In addition to the general provision regarding
waste of time, the kicker is bound to kick
without delay, under penalty.
The instructions in the second paragraph of
note (i) on Law 13 apply also in the case of a
penalty kick.
Even without a caution, if the delay is clearly a
breach of Law the kick should be disallowed and
a scrumrpage ordered.
(v)	The referee must always make up time lost by
any delay in taking the kick, as provided for in
note (ii) under Law 5.
(vi)	Ifthe kicker appears to be about totakeakickat
goal, the referee may ask him to state his
intention.
(vii)	Ifthe kicker is taking a kick at goal, all players of
the opposing team must remain passive from the
time the kicker commences his run until the kic
has been taken.
103
Law 27
viii) When a penalty kick is taken in In-goal, a
penalty try shall be awarded if a defending
player by foul play prevents an opponent from
first grounding the ball.
(ix)	If. from a penalty kick taken in In-goal, the ball
travels into touch-in-goal or over the dead-ball
line, a five metre scrummage should be ordered.
the attacking team to put in the ball.
(x)	If the kicker takes a drop kick and a goal results.
the goal stands even though the kicker has not
indicated to the referee an intention to kick at
goal.
(xi)	If, notwithstanding a prior infringement by the
opposing team, a goal is kicked, the goal should
be awarded instead of a further penalty kick.
(xii)	The referee should not award a further penalty if
he is satisfied that the reason for such further
penalty has been deliberately contrived by the
kicker's team. but should allow play to continue.
LAW 28. FREEKICK.
A free kick is a kick awarded for a fair-catch, or to the
non-offending team as stated in the Laws.
A goal shall not be scored by (he kicker from a free kick
unless the ball has first been played by another player.
^or an infringement it may be taken by any player of the
non-offending team.
104
Law 28
It may be taken by any form of kick provided that fa
kicker, if holding the ball, must propel it out of his hanfc
or, if the ball is on the ground, he must propel it a visible
distance from the mark. He may keep his hand on the boil
while kicking it.
(1) The team awarded a free kick has the option of
taking a scrummage at the mark and shall put in the ball.
(2) When a kick is taken, it must be taken without
undue delay.
(3)	The kick must be taken at or behind the markon
a line through the mark and the kicker may place the bail
for a place kick.
(4)	If the place prescribed by the Laws for the award
of a free kick is within five metres of the opponents’goal
line, the mark for the free kick, or the scrummage taken
instead of it, shall be five metres from the goal line on?
line through that place.
(5)	The kicker may kick the ball in any directional
he may play the ball again without restriction.
(6)	The kicker’s team, except a placer for a place
kick, must be behind the ball until it has been kicked
(7)	The opposing team must not wilfully resort to an)
action which may delay the taking of a free kick. ,
This includes actions such as wilfully carrying, throw' ■
or kicking the baU away out of reach of the kicker.
105
Law 28
(8)	The opposing team must retire without delay to or
behind a line parallel to the goal lines and ten metres from
the mark or to their own goal line if nearer to the mark, or
■ five metres from their opponents goal line if the mark is
in-goal. Having so retired, players of the opposing team
may charge with a view to preventing the kick, as soon as
the kicker places the ball on the ground, or begins his run
or offers to kick. Retiring players will not be penalised if
their failure to retire ten metres is due to the rapidity with
which the kick has been taken, but they may not stop
retiring and enter the game until an opponent carrying
the ball has run five metres.
(9)	If having charged fairly, players of the opposing
team prevent the kick from being taken it is void.
(10)	Neither the kicker nor the placer shall wilfully do
anything which may lead the opposing team to charge
prematurely. If cither docs so, the charge shall not be
disallowed.
Penalty:—
* For an infringement by the kicker’s team
or for a void kick—a scrummage at the
mark and the opposing team shall put in the
ball.
If (he mark is in In-goal, the scrummage
shall be awarded five metres from the goal
line on a line through the mark.
0 For an infringement by the opposing tcam-
a free kick ten metres in front of the mark or
106
five metres from the goal-line whichever is
nearer, on a line through the mark. Any
player of the non-offending team may take
the kick.
NOTES
(i)	The kick must be taken with the ball which was
in play unless the referee decides that the ball is
defective.
(ii)	A player taking a free kick may not bounce the
ball on his knee. The kick must be made with the
foot or lower leg. If a player fails to kick the ball.
a scrum should be ordered.
(iii)	The kicker may not feint to kick and then draw
back. Once he makes any movement to kick, the
opponents may charge.
(iv)	In addition to the general provision regarding
waste of time, the kicker is bound to kick
without delay, under penalty.
(v)	The referee shall see that the opposing players
do not gradually creep up and that they have
both feet behind the ten metres line, otherwise
he shall award a penalty in accordance with the
penalty provisions of Law 28.
(vi)	If the kick is taken from behind the goal line, the
ball is in play if an opponent legitimately playsit
before it crosses the goal line, and a try may he
scored.
107
Law 28
(vii)	When a free kick is taken in In-goal, a penalty try
shall be awarded if a defending player, by foul
play, prevents an opponent from first grounding
the ball.
(viii)	If from a free kick taken In-goal the ball travels
into touch-in-goal or over the dead-ball line, a
five metres scrummage should be ordered, the
attacking team to put in the ball.
(ix)	If opponents lawfully charge down a free kick in
the playing area, play should be allowed to
continue.
(x)	If a free kick has been awarded in the field-of-
play and the player retires to his In-goal to take
the kick and his opponents having lawfully
charged to prevent the kick from being taken, a
scrummage shall be awarded five metres from
the goal line on a line through the mark.
(xi)	If a free kick has been awarded in In-goal and the
opponents having lawfully charged prevent the
kick from being taken, a scrummage shall be
awarded five metres from the goal line on a line
through the mark.
(xii)	If the referee is satisfied that the reason for a free
kick under the penalty provisions has been
contrived, he should allow play to continue.
108
INDEX TO LAWS OF THE GAME
Accidental Off-side
Advantage.........
Attacking Team....
Refer to Law-
.. 24 Exception (i)
..............8
Definition, 12,14
Ball—Description of..............................2
Held in In-goal.........................14(1)
Illegally Touched..........................11
In Touch...................................23
In Touch-in-goal.............14, (2), (3), 26(3)
Taking Over Own Goal-line...............14(2)
Touching Referee...........................9
Unplayable................14 (1), 22 (3), 23 (12)
Beyond or Behind or In Front.............Definition
Binding in Scrummage..........................20 (6)
in Ruck................................21(1)
Charging at Kicks..........10 (5), 13 (2), 15 (5), 28
Line-Out..................23 B (15), (16), 20
Opponent........................26(1), (2)
Choice of Ends............................5(1)
Collapsing of Scrummage............ 20 (14), 26(3)
„ of Ruck.............................21 (2), 26 (3)
Commencement of Match.................6 A (6), (7)
Comer Post............................1 and Fla"
Cross Bar.............................plan and 11
109
Refer to Law—
Dangerous Play at Scrummage..............20 (3), 26 (3)
Dead Ball................................Definition, 14
Dead Ball Line.............................1, Plan, 14
Defending Team...................Definition, 10,12,23
Defending Player...................................14
Delays Permitted...................................5
Illegal....... 13 (2), 20 (1), 24 C, D, 27 (2), 28
Dress..............................................4
Drop Kick........................ 10,11,13,15,27,28
Drop-Out.........................12 C (2), 14 (3), 15
Duration of Match..................................5
Fair Catch (Mark).............Definition, 16,17 (2), 28
Field-of-Play..........................................1
Five Metres........................................Plan
for Scrummage....................12 D, 14, 20
for Line-out........................23 B (10)
for Penalty Kick........................27 (2)
for Free Kick..............................28
Fifteen Metres................................Plan
......................................1 and Plan
Foul Play........................................26
Free Kick.......16, 28, in red in Laws 20,21 and 23
Goal Scoring......................................H
Signalling........................6 B (6), (7)
Kick at..................................13,27
Goal Lines.................................1 and Plan
Tryon................................12 A (2)
Off-side Line at Line-out................24 D
110
Refer to Law-
Ground.............................1 and Plan
Grounding Ball.........................11,
Hacking.........
Half-time.......
Half-way Line...
Holding Opponent
Hooker..........
.................26(3)
.....5 (3), 6 A (6), 10
............... Plan,10
23 B (15), (16), 26(3)
....20, Definition, (6)
Illegal Tackles..................................26(3)
In-goal.. 1 and Plan, 11,12,14,16,26 (Penalty (iii)),28
In-goal Play.....................................9(2)
Try.........................................12
International Matches Time.......................5(2)
International Rugby Football Board...............6(3)
Interval.........................................5(3)
Jumping—Illegal.............21 (2), 22 (2), 23 B (15)
Kick.......................................Definition,?
Kick-off...................................5(1), 7,10
Knock-on............................................
Late Tackle........................... ......................26(3)
Line-out Definition.........23B
Begins.......................7///.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'...23B(H)
Throwing in the Ball.. 23 B (6), (7), (8), (9), (1°)
Quick throw in..............................23 B (9), (10)
Peeling off..................23 B (13), (14), (17),(1®
111
Refer to Law—
Restriction on Players
23 B (15), (16), (17),(18), (19), (20)
Off-side at....................24 D (1), (2), (3)
On-side at......................24 D (4), 25 (3)
Ends.................................23 B (13)
Line through the Mark (or Place)...........Definition
Lying with, on or near the ball...................... 18
Mark (Fair Catch)..........Definition, 16,17 (2), (28)
Maul................................22,24C, 25 (3)
Method of Scoring................................ 11
Misconduct............................26 (1), (2), (3)
Mode of Play......................................7
National Representative Team...........3 (1), 6 B (6)
No-side...................................5, 6 A (6)
Notes.................In blue print throughout Laws
Number of Players.................................3

Obstruction...............................26(1), (3)
Off-side in general play.........................24 A
at Scrummage............................24 B
at Ruck or Maul..........................24 C
at Line-out...............................24 D
Offside Line.............Definition 24 B, C, D
...............................7, 12 A (1), 25
Options.....10 (2), (3), 15,23 B (10), 24 D, 26,27,28
p^:”..........................7,18(1), 25 (2) (3)
Feeling-off
23 Definition B (13), (14), (17), (18), 24 D (1) (c)
112
Refer to Law-
Penalties................In red print throughout Laws
Penalty Kick.....................................27
Penalty Try........................... 12 A (5), 26,28
Picking up the Ball
7,12 (3), 17 (3), 18 (3), 20 (16), 21 (2)(c)
Place Kick..............................10,13,27,28
Plan of Field......................................1
Players—Dress..................................4,6
Hurt......................5 (4), 6 A (8) (c), 16
In the Line-out
23 B Definition (15), (16), (17), (18), (19), (20)
Leaving Playing Enclosure or Resuming
6A(8)(c) I
........................
Number of................................3 ;
Ordered off..............................26
Participating in Line-out
23 B (20), 24 C (2), 24 D, Definition(1)
Reported to the Union....................26
Touching Referee.........................9
Playing Enclosure...............1, 6 A (7), 6 A (8) (c)
Playing time lost...............................5
Props..........................................20
Punt......................................................____ Definition
Pushing an Opponent.......23 B (15), (16), 26 (1), P)
Referee—Appointment and Duties
Repeated Infringement of Laws___
Replacements.........
Ruck..............
...6A
....................._____26
113
Refer to Law—
Scoring Method of................................ 11
Scrummage........................................20
Beginning of..........................20 (10)
Binding in................................20 (6)
Entering from Opponents’ Side.........24 B, C
Forcing Way Through...................26(1) (c)
Off-side and off-side line................24 B
Pushed Over Goal Line.................12 A (2)
Putting Ball into.........14, 20 (7), (10), (11)
Restrictions on Players in
20 (12) (13) (14) (15) (16)
6 A (6) (a) ,7
5, 6 A (6) (6)
.......5,6(6)
...26(3) (a)
.......4(3)
Start of Match........
Stoppage of Match....
Stoppage of Play......
Striking an Opponent
Studs.................
Tackle, Lying with, on or near the ball...........7,18
Tackled Player......................................18
Ten Metres Line at Kick-off.............L Plan, 10 (2)
at Line-out..................24 D, Definition
Throw-forward..................................17
Time...........................................5
Timekeeper.................................6 A (3)
Toss...... ....................................5
Touch...... . . . . ...................1, 6, 23 A
Throwing in from................6 B, 17, 23 B
Throwing into...........................26 (2)
Touch-down.............................6, 9,12 C, 14
Touch-in-Goal.........1, Plan, 6 B (4), 14 Definition
114
Refer to Law-
Touch Judges—Appointment and Duties...........5 g
Touch Line............................1» Plan, 23 B
Trial Matches............................3 (1) (0)
Tripping..........................*o
Try...............................9, 11’ 12* 14,26
Twenty-two Metres Line............ 1, Plan, 14,15,16
Unconverted Try............................10,13 (1)
Undue Delay.........................13 (2), 27 (2), 28
Union......................................Definition
Upright....................................1, Plan
Waste of Time..............................26 (2) (b)
Whistle....................................6 A (6)
Wilful Obstruction and Foul Play....26 (1), (2), (3)
Collapsing of Scrummage...............20 (16) (d)
Infringements (minor).................26 (2) (c)
Knock-on or Throw Forward.............17 (1)
Kicking Out of Scrummage..............20 (14) (c)
Misleading of Opponents...............13,28
Throw into Touch......................26 (2) (c)
115
INTERNATIONAL rugby football board
directives
March 1981
Dragging Down by Props
The International Board is concerned at an increasing
tendency for props to endeavour to drag down their
opponents by pulling on their jerseys and/or outer arm.
Such practices carry an attendant risk of collapse of the
front row with the possibility of serious injury due to the
manner in which the players concerned are likely to fall.
The present methods of formation of the front row and
requirements for binding are under review by the Board
and will be considered again at its meeting next year. In an
effort to improve the situation certain changes have been
made to Law 20 to be operative in each Union next season.
Meanwhile Member unions are to direct referees that in
the interests or safety, they must take strict measures to
penalise the practices referred to above, or any other
action which is likely to cause the scrummage to collapse.
March 1981
Prohibition of Single Toe Studs
The attention of Member Unions is also drawn to the
addition to Law 4(3) of the words “The wearing of a single
stud at the toe of a boot is prohibited”. This has been done
a further measure in the interests of safety. Member
Unions are asked to take such steps as they deem necessary
to implement this change and to draw attention to the need
Or “Hing or blanking to render safe any empty stud hole
resulting from the removal of a stud.
116
17th August 1981
At the Annual Meeting of the Board in March 1981,
alterations were made to Law 20 Scrummage, in an attempt
to reduce the incidence of collapsed scrummages and
potential serious injury. The changes in law relate solely to
. players in the front row of the scrummage, especially the
prop forwards and how they must bind one another.
In particular Law 20(6)(c) states:
“The tight head prop must bind his opposing loose head
prop with his right arm over the top of the left shoulder of
nis opposing loose head prop. ”
The Board appreciates that some difficulty is being experienced
in applying the above section of the Law as written and, in
response to requests for clarification, finds it necessary to issue
the following directive:
It directs all players, coaches and referees to:
1. Interpret Law 20(6)(c), insofar as it relates to binding
by the tight head prop, as follows:
The tight head prop must bind his right arm outside
the left upper arm of his opposing loose head prop.
He may grip the jersey of his opposing loose head
prop with his right hand but only to keep himself and
the scrummage steady and he must not exert a
downward pull.
2. Observe strictly Law 20(14)(b) which states:
Players in the front rows must not at any time during
he scrummage wilfully adopt any position or wilfully
take any action, by twisting or lowering the body or
by pulling on an opponent’s dress, which is likely
cause the scrummage to collapse.”
117
9th July 1982
In response to a reouest from the New Zealand Rugby
Football Union, the following ruling was received from the
IRFB (Designated Members) dated 9th July 1982.
01. A player carrying the ball is held by an opponent grasping
V the tail of his jersey with one hand and goes to the ground
while so held. Does this constitute a tackle?
Q2. What is the definition of "held”? For example, can the
player be “held” by one leg, or by the jersey or by a
^bootlace?
(’Comment appended to question: It is considered the
question in regard to a bootlace is hypothetical and should
be ignored.)
Answer.
Both questions essentially involve the meaning of the word
“held”. There is, of course, no definition within the Laws of the
Game, but the term has long been in use and has no difference
in meaning now than heretofore. An Oxford Dictionary
definition is “keep fast or grasp”, which seems appropriate
here. It has generally been accepted that pulling on any part oi
the clothing of an opponent is holding. See Law 26(3)(e)•
It is considered that a player is "held” if he is grasped by an
opponent with an arm or arms or hand or hands to any par o
his body, arms or legs or any part of his dress. If, while so e ,
he is brought to the ground then he is “tackled”. _1au/»r
In the specific question, the relevant facts are that the P>ay
carrying the ball has been grasped and brought to the gro
*htlc so held. Therefore, within the context of Law 18 he
tackled.
118
November 1982
Law 20 Scrummage(Binding of Players)
After the ball has been put into a scrummage but before if has
emerged, it is illegal for players in a front row to break away
and stand up in order to counter a wheel or similar
manoeuvre by the opposing team.
March 1983
The attention of all referees is drawn to Law 26(2)(d) and
the Penalty provisions for repeated infringements, which it
is considered are not being applied by referees.
March 1984
In a letter dated 21st December 1983 the WRU posed the
following question:
“At a penally kick at goal a defending player jumps up and
deliberately Knocks the ball forward in order to prevent the
ball crossing the bar for a goal.
Is this a deliberate knock-on or a charge down?”
As stated in the question the player’s intention was to
prevent a goal being scored. To do this he appears
intentionally to have charged down the kick and not
intentionally to have knocked-on. This conforms to the
situation set out in Law 17(2) second pica dot and the
knock-on in these ’circumstances should be ruled
unintentional.
Attention of Member Unions is again drawn to the Ruling
dated 25th October 1979 that:
If the scrum half following the ball around a scrummage,
places his hand or hands on the opposing flanker and
variously uses him to obtain leverage or assistance or
undTuwS^’’116 Sh°Uld be penal*sed for miscondUCt
Directive to Unions with immediate effect
nf t?°?rd is concerned at the introduction into the Game
followLI,h8enera!ly described as “the flying wed8c -
R the award of a penalty kick or a free kick.
This is potentially a very dangerous practice and could
result in serious injury to opposing players
Consequently it is to be regarded as dangerous play and is
to be penalised m accordance with the provisions of Law
26(3).
Under 19 and Schoolboy Rugby
The Board approved Member Unions adopting trial
variations to the Laws of the Game in domestic matches for
Under 19 and Schoolboy Rugby in the interests of greater
safety and requests that reports on any such trials be
submitted to it.
March 1985
Ruling on Law 26:
In response to a question received, the Committee
recommends that the following ruling given in 1980 is
applicable to any opposing player bound to the scrum, not
only the flanker as stated. The ruling was in response to a
specific question relating to the flanker.
“If the scrum half, following the ball round the scrummage.
places his hand or hands on the opposing flanker and
variously uses him to obtain leverage or assistance or
grasps his jersey, he should be penalised for misconduct
under Law 26 (3)”.
Concussion
In recent years there has been increasing concern amongst
involved medical workers who see the long term effects,
that CONCUSSION is one of the most serious injuries that
can be sustained by participants in any sport.
Unfortunately there is often no apparent reason for
concern on an immediate or short term basis.
Resolution 7.6 reflects the concern of the Board's Medical
Advisory Committee that a player who has sustained a
head injury of any sort should receive appropriate advice
120
and treatment. The Board, supporting this, decided that
the Resolution should be quoted in the Laws Book
following Law 3, to draw it to the attention of officials and
coaches.
It must be remembered that the purpose of this Resolution
is to protect the player’s physical welfare and safety. It is to
ensure that he does not participate while still recovering
from an injury, the effects of which are not readily
apparent to the lay person or an unqualified coach, orcven
to the player himself. There is no intention to place
responsibility for this on the referee. It is the responsibility
of coaches and officials.
It is not intended or suggested that a referee should give an
opinion or make a decision regarding “definite
concussion”. The referee’s function docs not go beyond
Law 3 (5), which was altered to give him authority to
require a player to leave the field if he considered for any
reason it would be harmful for that player to continue
playing.
Regarding medical examination after suspected
concussion, a “proper neurological examination" maybe
carried out by any Doctor who has appropriate experience
and this is not confined to a particular specialty. The
examination should be primarily concerned with clinical
signs and the history given by the patient in response to
specific questions. There is an internationally recognise
assessment of concussion, based on the degree of amnesia
In the absence of clinical signs or symptoms, a brain scan
will not nonnally assist in diagnosing concussion or
determining if a player is fit to resume playing. Itsuse *s'
serious complications, where it should already be evident
at the player should not be playing.
"mU,?ma’X’ an aPProPr>atc clinical examination by J
competent Doctor, of whatever speciality, should normall)
^±?Ua,C-.Ir such. "amination reveals no evidence ol
■on, the restriction on playing need not apply-
121
25th November 1985
Law 22 Maul: Experimental Variations
I refer to the letter from the Scottish Rugby Union dated
25th September 1985, in regard to the Experimental Note
to Law 22 and advise as follows:
1.	If any player in a maul goes to the ground whilst the
maul is in progress a scrummage is to be ordered, with
the ball being put in by the team determined in
accordance with Law 20(7).
2.	A maul ends when the ball is on the ground, so that in a
maul situation where a player had the ball in his
possession and has placed it on the ground, the ensuing
position should be dealt with in accordance with Law
21.
3.	The existing Laws combined with the Experimental
Variations provide that a player must not wilfully
collapse a ruck or a maul and must not wilfully fall or
kneel in a ruck. The Penalty provision is a Penalty
Kick.
4.	In considering any interpretation of the Experimental
Variations it is to be borne in mind that the Board and
all Member Unions have been concerned, with
improving safety aspects and to encourage the concept
that the game should be played by players on tneir feet.
26th November 1985
Re: Law 23B Line-out
I refer to the letter from the Irish Rugby Football Union,
dated 24th September 1985, relating to a decision of a
meeting of the Five Nations Committee with its
international Panels of Referees, on 2nd December 1984.
Attention is drawn to Law 23B (21) that "players of
fdher team who are not in the line-out may not advance
rom behind the line-out and take the ball from the throw-
122
in except only... a player ‘participating m the line-out’(as
defined in Section D of Law 24) who may run into a gap in
the line-out and take the ball provided he does not charge
or obstruct any player in the hne-out”.
Section D of Law 24 states that the term “participating in
the line-out" includes “one other player of either team who
takes up position to receive the ball if it is passed or
knocked back from the line-out”.
Therefore the scrum half from the side not throwing in
the ball is “participating in the line-out" and may run into a
gap and take the ball even if his opponent did not move to
do so first, provided he does not charge or obstruct any
other player in the line-out.
The decision reached by the meeting under references
considered to be correct.
I
27th November 1985
Re: Law 20(4) Scrummage Wheeling
I refer to the letter from the Rugby Football Union dated
5th October 1985 which included under Item 3, questions
relating to possibilities following a scrum wheeling. In so
far as we are able to understand the questions, we advise as
follows:
1. Each front row of a scrummage shall have three
players in it at all times. If there arc less than three the
scrummage is over. If an infringement has occurred
under Law 20(4), the penalty is a penalty kick al the
place of infringement.
2. The referee should allow advantage except as stated in
Note (ii) to Law 8.
Any players of the team in possession of the ball who
are in front of the ball are in an off-side position in
accordance with Law 24A.
123
4. The referee should allow advantage for off-side in
general play subject to Note (i) to Law 24A.
5,	If a scrummage is over, players of the team not in
possession may dive at the ball at the feet of the No. 8.
19th March 1987
Law 18
1. In the circumstances stated in Note (iv) to Law 18, a
“defending player” may attempt to prevent a try being
scored. “Defending player” includes a tackler and a player
lying on the ground.
2. In the context of Law 18, a player on the ground may not
kick the ball into touch before getting up onto his feet.
Sections (1) and (4) of this Law state what the player on the
ground may or may not do.
March 1988
Law 6A Referee Section (7)
It should be noted that if the referee decides to stop play as the
terms of this amendment (see Section 7 second paragraph) but
without an infringement having occured or without the ball being
dead, he should re-start play with a scrummage and the ball shall
be put in by the team last in possession, otherwise by the
attacking team.
March 1988
Law 26 (3) Penalty (vi); Ruling
The Board again reviewed the penalty provision (vi) of Law
26(3), relating to an offence reported by a touch judge under Law
6B(6) and confirmed its previous ruling.
Recognising that the non-offending team may have gained
ground, lost ground or scored a try in circumstances unrelated to
the offence, it is intended that the referee should be able to award
124
any resultant penalty at a place which would not disadvantage
the non-offending team. This is the basis for the choice offered in
the penalty provision (vi). It is for the referee to determine the
question of advantage, but if he decides to award a penalty kick.
it should generally be at the place of greater advantage to the
non-offending team.
Referees and touch judges are reminded that Law 6B(6) was
introduced as a deterrent to foul play and misconduct under
circumstances where the referee may be unlikely to observe it.
Thus it is intended that the penalty be severe.
Query: If a player of the same team other than “the kicker” places
the ball on the ground, may the opposing team then charge
immediately?
Ruling: If a player of the team which has been awarded a free kick
places the ball on the ground on the mark or behind the
mark on a line through the mark, then the opposing team
may assume the placer is the kicker and may charge with a
view to preventing the kick.
If the opposing team under these circumstances prevents
the kick from being taken, it is void. The referee may not
play advantage because play has not re-started and no
infringement has occurred. In accordance with Penalty
provision Law 28, he should award a scrummage at the
mark and the opposing team shall put in the ball.
125
R.F.U. RULINGS
LAW 27(2)(c). Penalty Kick at Goal
Query:The kicker places the ball for a kick at goal, as he
starts to run the ball falls over; the kicker picks up
the ball and drop kicks, the ball goes between the
posts. Referee gives the goal—three points to
kicker’s team. Was the referee correct?
Ruling: If, having elected to kick at goal, the ball then fell
over and the kicker changed the type of kick and
proceeded to drop a goal, the kick should stand.
(Covered by Law 27(2)(c) R.F.U. Handbook
p. L99.)
LAW 6(5) and LAW 26
Query: A “red” player carrying the ball puts a foot into
touch. The touch judge raises his flag; this action
is not seen by the referee and’play proceeds for
some distance before the referee has to blow his
whistle for an action by “red" under Law 26. The
referee awards a penalty to “red’s" opponents,
only then does he see that the touch judge has his
flag raised. Where should the penalty be given?
Ruling: The penalty should be awarded at the place of the
infringement and not 15m in from the point of
touch where the player has stepped out of the
field of play.
15- September 1982
LAW 20. SCRUMMAGE (ref. Section (4)), p.L50
In reply to a query from the Norfolk RFU, it was agreed
mat as this law is framed a minimum of five players from
cach team are required to form a scrummage. The two
players at the rear of the scrummage can either pack as .wo
126
locks or two flankers and/or as one flanker and one lock
Thereafter, they may leave the scrummage as per Law
24B(l)(t) and Exception, ref. p. L76.
In clarification of the words “but is not formed within
5 m of the touch line”, it was agreed that all feet in a
scrummage must be beyond the in-field side of the 5 m line.
16. February 1983
The Rugby Football Union have decided to ban forthwith a
ploy commonly known as the “flying wedge”, in all School/
Colls rugby.
This is a move which usually takes place close to an
opponents line, and is initiated by a player either tapping
the ball to himself or receiving a short pass, and then
driving towards the goal line with his colleagues binding
onto either side of him, in a V or wedge formation; hence
the term “flying wedge”.
Frequently the player is isolated illegally by those of his
own team in front of him (Coaches/Referees please note).
The dangers inherent in this formation are not for those
initiating the move but for those trying to stop it.
Such a move or ploy is now banned.
17. April 1987
The Cavalry Charge
A cavalry charge usually occurs when a penalty kick is
awarded to the attacking team close to their opponent’s goal
line. Players of the attacking team line up behind the kicker
spacing themselves across the field in gaps of a metre or two.
On a signal from the kicker they begin to charge forward.
Only when they are close to the kicker does he tap kick the
ball and pass it to one of them. The defending team have to
remain behind a line 10 metres from the mark or their own
goal line (if nearer) until the ball has been kicked.”
127
“The move is potentially dangerous and is, therefore,
banned forthwith for those playing the game at U-19 on 1 st
January.”
23rd December 1987
From 1st January 1988 place kickers are allowed to use a
mixture of dry sand and soil for kick offs and kick at goal.
Clubs/Schools are asked to provide this facility N.B.
Builders sand should not be used as it may cause damage to
the grass.
LAW 6A(7) AMENDMENT 1988
Ruling issued by the Rugby Football Union
The provisions of the second paragraph of Section 7 must be
applied in all matches (with the exception of matches
between teams aged under 19 or below) when a medically
trained person is in attendance. While domestic matches
between teams aged under 19 or below are excluded, in
matches at that level involving teams from other Unions the
provisions are to be applied unless it is the policy of the
other Union also to exclude such teams from the provisions
of this Law.
Before the match, the referee must ascertain whether a
medically trained person is available and, if he is, shall issue
appropriate instructions to him and to the Team Captains.
It is to be noted that in all matches in which these provisions
are applied, the referee has a discretion to stop play at any
time. He should do so in cases where the injury is other than
minor or if continuation of play is likely result in danger to
players.
128
LAWS INTERPRETATIONS FOR ALL WHO PLAY UNDER
THE AGE OF NINETEEN YEARS ON 1ST JANUARY
These were introduced on 1st September 1983 in England in
Domestic Matches only
1.	Any player at any stage in the scrum, ruck or maul who lias
or causes an opponent to have his shoulders lower than his
hip joint must immediately be penalised by awarding a free
kick. The object of this interpretation is to try lo prevent a
collapse of scrum, ruck or maul. It is to help the Coach to
coach good technique, and the Referee to penalise bad
technique. Any player who has his shoulders lower than his
hip joint can only move downwards unless he has very great
strength. The force through the shoulders should be i
directed forwards and upwards; all players should remain I
on their feet, thus preventing a pile-up and possible injury
2.	Law 18 Tackle, Lying with, on or near the ball.
"A player or players from either team must no.t wilfully fall
on or over a player who is lying on the ground with the ball
in his possession, or on players lying on the ground with the ;
ball between them."
Penalty:— Penalty kick at the place of infringement
Additional Notes to help to interpret Law 18.
(a) NO advantage shall be played under this Law.
(o) A player is assumed to have fallen wilfully unless the
retcree is absolutely certain the fall was accidental
™ very rare instances when the fall is accidental, pty
thic2 * * S k e stopped and a scrummage awarded The objects
I ’ ir range ln ,nlerpretation in Law 18 is to keep players on
their feet and to prevent them from falling to the ground-
129
thus removing a dangerous area of play. This will create
proper rucks and mauls defined as . players from each
team on their feet" (Law 21, ruck: Law 22, maul). Should
the correctly formed ruck or maul then collapse, the
referee must immediately act to prevent a pile-up from
developing.
As of 1st September 1984 - Law 20(4) amend to read as
follows:- “a minimum of five and a maximum of eight
players from each team shall be required to form a
scrummage”.
Note: At the IB Meeting of April 1986, Laws 18 and 19
were amalgamated.
GUIDELINES TO PREVENT INJURY
1. Plav the game for the right reason—first learn how to play
skilfully, then apply that skill in order to win.
2. Seminars, internal courses and working to a regular
syllabus are essential steps to proficiency. Players must be
adequately prepared for any match.
3.	Mismatches can be avoided by talking to the Coach in
charge of the opposition before the game.
4- Attention must be paid to pre-season preparation. Boys
need to be fit to play rugby rather than hope to become fit
by playing it. Adequate fitness training, including special
exercises Tor the front row, are vital—necks and shoulders
need to be strong. The fatigue factor needs careful
watching—see RFu publication, ‘‘Fitness Training tor
Rugby”.
5- Tackling is a skill which needs to be taught. Many RFU
publications handle this very important aspect correctly
130
"Even Belter Rugby", "Mini Rugby—It’s the Rea|
Thing”—and there are films and videos, e.g. Pan II ofthe
“Better Rugby” series called, “Confidence in Contact"
6.	No boy should be asked to play outside of his age group
unless he is demonstrably better than boys of his own age
and physically and mentally capable of such a move. No
boy will be permitted to play for adult (over 19) teams
within a club until he has reached the statutory school-
leaving age and clubs must exercise great care and close
supervision over the playing of those who are under the age
of 19 in adult teams.
7.	Violence has no place in the game. Any boy using his boot
against a player, or committing other obvious acts of
violence, should be removed from the game by his school
or club for a very significant length of time. i.e. for a
season.
8.	The procedure for replacements is there to be used. See
Law 3(a) “In matches between teams of schoolboys or
teams where all players are under the age of 19, up to six
players may be replaced." An injury to a player
necessitating his removal from the field should mean a
replacement skilled enough, and fit enough, for that
position.
9- Injuries from pile-ups are often caused by a player refusing
to part with the ball. Getting rid of the ball early rather than
ate makes for a faster and more enjoyable game.
10’ IvJ!10 lllS.,rale lhese guidelines, the following pamphlets are
available:
No. 1)
No. 2
No. 3)
No. 4)
pie Spirit of the Game
KoIeoftheTeacher/Coach
Piay Hard, Play Safe
Keep Your Head Up
131
No. 5) Be prepared
No. 6) What to do . . . concussion
No. 7) What to do . . . fractures
No. 8) Physical conditioning for young players
Noles: (1) It is appreciated that referees will have to adjust
their visual concept of what they are looking for at
Under 19 level as opposed to senior level. We have
every confidence they will achieve what is asked of
them — if they apply the spirit behind these Law
interpretations.
(2) Further pamphlets Nos. 9 and 10 were introduced in
September 1984.
132
THESCRUM
Shoulders NEVER below hips
THETACKLE
Head behind the seat
133
THE RUCK
Shoulders NEVER below hips
Keep on your feet
Keep your opponents on their feet
Keep your eyes open
Bind
134
THE MAUL
Shoulders NEVER below hips