Copyright © International Rugby Board 2009
All rights reserved. The reproduction, distribution or
transmission of all or part of the work, whether by
photocopying or storing in any medium by electronic means or
otherwise, without the written permission of the International
Rugby Board {application for which should be addressed to the
International Rugby Board), is prohibited.
The right of the International Rugby Board to be
identified as the author of this work is hereby asserted by it in
accordance with the Copyright, Designs and Patents Act, 1988.
Published by the International Rugby Board
Publisher ISBN: 978-0-9558770-8-7
INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
Huguenot House, 35-38 St. Stephen’s Green, Dublin 2, Ireland
Tel. +353-1 -240-9200 Fax. +353-1-240-9201
Web. www.irb.com Email, irb@irb.com
( I
www.irblaws.com
The IRB’s Law Education web site
lEnglish • French • Spanish • Russian • Chinese • Japanese • Italian
» Read the Laws of the Game
and the IRB Playing Charter
» Watch video clips and digital
. animations of the Laws in
I practice
► Take the self-test Law exam
.and download your
; awareness certificate
• I Download PDF files of the
I Law Book
0] -•
LAWS OF THE GAME
RUGBY UNION
Contents @
Key to text and diagrams 1
Foreword 2
Definitions 4
Playing Charter 10
Before the match 20
Law 1 The Ground 21
Law 2 The Ball 27
Law 3 Number of Players - The Team 29
Law 4 Players' Clothing 35
Law 5 Time 38
Law 6 Match Officials 41
6.A Referee 22
6.B Touch Judges and Assistant Referees 46
6.C Additional Persons 49
During the match
Method of Playing the Match 50
Law 7 Mode of Play 51
Law 8 Advantage 52
Law 9 Method of Scoring 54
Law 10 Foul Play 58
Law 11 Offside and Onside in General Play 57
Law 12 Knock-on or Throw forward 73
INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
Contents
® 1
In the Field of Play	76
Law 13 Kick-off and Restart Kicks 		77
Law 14 Ball on the Ground - No Tackle . .	84
Law 15 Tackle. Ball carrier Brought to the Ground	86
Lav/16 Ruck	94
Law 17 Maul	99
Law 18 Mark	105
Restarts	108
Law 19 Touch and Lineout 		109
Law 20 Scrum 		130
Law 21 Penalty and Free Kicks	143
In-Goal	150
Law 22 m-goal	151
Under 19 Variations	160
Seven-a-side Variations	164
Referee Signals	172
Regulation 12 Extract	185
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2009
Key to text and diagrams
DIAGRAMS
Throughout th s book, the diagrams conform to the following conventions
Players
Ball
Path of ball when kicked
wohb
Path of ball when thrown / passed
Path of ball when knocked on / charged down
Path of player
Flag post
TEXT
Throughout this book. May 2009 changes are highlighted by:
Penalty kicks are denoted as
Penalty: Penalty kick
Foreword
FOREWORD
The object of the Game is that two teams of fifteen or seven players each, observing fair play
according to the Law and sporting spirit, should by carrying, passing, kicking and grounding tt
ball, score as many points as possible, the team scoring the greater number of points being the
winner of the match.
The Laws of the Game, including the standard set of variations for Linder 19 Rugby ano Severs
Rugby, are complete and contain all that is necessary to enable the Game to be played correc:»
and fairly.
Rugby Union is a sport which involves physical contact. Any sport involving physical etc
has inherent dangers. It is very important that players play the Game in accordance wtot
Laws of the Game and be mindful of the safety of themselves and others.
It Is the responsibility of players to ensure that they are physically and technically prepr
in a manner which enables them to play the Game, comply with the Laws of the Game a~
participate in accordance with safe practices.
It is the responsibility of those who coach or teach the Game to ensure that players are
prepared in a manner which ensures compliance with the Laws of the Game and In
accordance with safe practices.
It is the duty of the referee to apply fairly all the laws of the game in every match except wher 1
Experimental Law Vanation (ELV) has been authorised by the IRB Council.
It is the duty of the Unions to ensure that the game at every level is conducted in accordance <
disciplined and sporting behaviour This principle cannot be upheld solely by the referee; its
observance also rests on Unions, affiliated bodies and clubs
3
INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
0effllTDDtO©rDS

/\
Actual time: Elapsed time including time lost for any reason.
Addvantage: Law 8 - Advantage.
Attacking team: The opponents of the defending team in whose half of the ground play
is taking place.
B
Ball carrier: A player carrying the ball.
Beeyond or behind or in front of a position: Means with both feet, except where the
coontext makes that inappropriate.
Biinding: Grasping firmly another player’s body between the shoulders and the hips with
thue whole arm in contact from hand to shoulder.
c:
Captain: The captain is a player nominated by the team. Only the captain is entitled to
cconsult the referee during the match and is solely responsible for choosing options relating
too the referee’s decisions.
Cavalry charge: Law 10 - Foul Play
Cconversion kick: Law 9 - Method of Scoring
Cconverted: A conversion kick that was successful
DO
Dangerous play: Law 10 - Foul Play.
Dnead: The ball is out of play. This happens when the ball has gone outside the playing
arrea and remained there, or when the referee has blown the whistle to indicate a
stoppage in play, or when a conversion kick has been taken.
Diiead ball line: Law 1 - The Ground.
Defending team: The team in whose half of the ground play is taking place; their
□opponents are the attacking team.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2009
4
Definitions
$
Drop kick: The ball is dropped from the hand or hands to the ground and kicked as n
rises from its first bounce
Drop out: Law 13 - Kick-Off and Restart Kicks.
Dropped goal: Law 9 - Method of Scoring.
F
Field of play: Law 1 - The Ground.
Flanker Forward player who usually wears jersey No.6 or No.7.
Flying wedge: Law 10 - Foul Play.
Foul play: Law 10 - Foul Play.
Free kick: Law 21 - Penalty and Free Kicks. A kick awarded to the non-offending tea'
after an infringement by its opponents Unless a Law states otherwise, a free kick
awarded because of an infringement is awarded at the place of infringement.
Front row players: Law 20 - Scrum The forward players who are the loose-head proc
the hooker and the tight-head prop. These players usually wear jersey No. 1,2 and 3
respectively.
G
Goal: A player scores a goal by kicking the ball over an opponents’ cross bar and betv.c
the goal posts from the field of play, by a place kick or drop-kick. A goal cannot be sar
from a kick-off, drop-out or free kick.
Goal line: Law 1 - The Ground.
Grounding the ball: Law 22 - In-Goal
H
Half-time: The interval between the two halves of the game.
Hindmost foot The foot of the hindmost player in a scrum, ruck or maul which is
nearest that player’s goal-line.
Hooker Law 20 - Scrum. The middle front row player in a scrum who usually wears
jersey No. 2.
5
INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
definitions
0-1
n-fiield: Away from touch and towards the middle of the field.
n-gioal: Law 22 - In-Goal.
<
Cickk: A kick is made by hitting the ball with any part of the leg or foot, except the heel,
ronri the toe to the knee but not including the knee; a kick must move the ball a visible
jiskance out of the hand, or along the ground.
(icHk-off: Law 13 - Kick-off and Restart Kicks.
(ncock-on: Law 12 - Knock-on or Throw-forward.
.iftting: Law 19 - Touch and Lineout.
Jme of touch: Law 19 - Touch and Lineout. An imaginary line at right angles to the
ouachline at the place where the ball is thrown in from touch.
.irmeout: Law 19 - Touch and Lineout.
.ime through the mark or place: Unless stated otherwise, a line parallel to the
owchline.
.omg throw: Law 19 - Touch and Lineout.
.o<tose-head prop: Law 20 - Scrum. The left front row player in a scrum who usually
veears jersey No. 1
vn
atch organiser: the organisation responsible for the match which may be a union, a
iroup of unions or an organisation affiliated to the International Rugby Board.
JI lark: Law 18 - Mark.
0laul: Law 17 - Maul.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2009
6
Definitions
N
Near. Law 14 - Ball on the Ground - No Tackle. Within one metre.
0
Obstruction: Law 10 - Foul Play
Offside in open play: Law 11 • Offside and Onside in General Play.
Offside Line: An imaginary line across the ground, from one touchline to the other,
parallel to the goal-lines, the position of this line varies according to the Law.
Offside the 10-Metre Law: Law 11 - Offside and Onside in General Play.
Onside: Law 11 - Offside and Onside in General Play.
Open or bleeding wound: Law 3 - Number of Players -The Team
Out of play: This happens when the ball or the ball carrier has gone into touch or to.c
m-goal, or touched or crossed the dead ball line.
Oversteps: A player steps across a line with one or both feet; the line may be real (for
example, goal-line) or imaginary (for example, offside line).
p
Pass: A player throws the ball to another player; if a player hands the ball to another
player without throwing it, this is also a pass.
Peeling off: Law 19 - Touch and Lineout.
Penalty goal: Law 9 - Method of Scoring.
Penalty kick: Law 21 - Penalty and Free Kicks - A kick awarded to the non-offend n;
team after an infringement by its opponents. Unless a Law says otherwise, a penalty
kick is awarded at the place of infringement.
Penalty try: Law 10 - Foul Play
Place kick: The ball is kicked after it has been placed on the ground for that purpose
Placer. A player who holds the ball on the ground for a team-mate to kick.
Played: The ball is played when it is touched by a player
Playing area: Lav/1 - The Ground.
Playing enclosure: Law 1 - The Ground.
7
INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
Definitions
T
Tackle: Law 15 - Tackle: Ball Carrier Brought to the Ground.
Team-mate: Another player of the same team.
Temporarily suspended: Law 10 - Foul Play.
The plan: Law 1 - The Ground.
The 22: Law 1 - The Ground.
Throw-forward: Law 12 - Knock-On or Throw-Forward.
Throw-in: The act of the player who throws the ball into a scrum or a lineout
Tight-head prop: Law 20 - Scrum The right front row player in a scrum who usually
wears jersey No. 3.
Touch: Law 19 - Touch and Lineout.
Touch down: Law 22 - In-goal.
Touchline: Law 1 - The Ground.
Touch-in-goal line: Law 1 - The Ground.
Touch judge: Law 6 - Match Officials.
Try: Law 9 - Method of Scoring.
u
Union: The controlling body under whose jurisdiction the match is played; for an
international match it means the International Rugby Board or a Committee of the Ba
Y
Yellow card: A card, yellow in colour shown to a player who has been cautioned and
temporarily suspended for 10 minutes playing time
9
INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
Playing Charter 2009
Object
The ob.ect of the Game is that two teams, each of fifteen players.
observing fair play, according to the Laws and in a sporting spirit should.
by carrying. passing, kicking and grounding the ball, score as many points
as possib'e.
Rugby is played by men and women and by boys and girls world wide
More than three million people aged from 6-60 regularly participate In the
playing of the Game.
The wide variation of skills and physical requirements needed for the
Game mean that there is an opportunity for individuals of every shape.
size and ability to participate at all levels.
Contest and Continuity
The contest for possession of the ball is one of Rugby's key features
These contests occur throughout the Game and in a number of different
forms:
• in contact
• in general p’ay
• when play is re-started at scrums, lineouts and kick offs
The contests are balanced in such a way as to reward superior skill
displayed in the preceding action For example, a team forced to kick for
touch because of its inability to maintain the play, is denied the throw-in to
the lineout. Similarly, the team knocking the ball on or passing the ball
forward is denied the throw-in at the subsequent scrum. The advantage
g f * Law 1 The Ground
The Plan
Hot exceeds 22m
21 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
Law 1 The Ground
Field of play
Perimeter area
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2009 22
La
g Law U The Ground
r DEFINITIONS
I The Ground is the total
The Field of play is the area (as shown on the plan) be
the touchlines. These lines are not part of the field of pla
area shown on the plan. The Ground includes:
it, not less L-_
Including the
d between
ethe deadb
own on the 1
ot part of the J
The Playing Area is the field of play and the in-goal a
plan). The touchlines, touch-in-goal lines and dead ball li
playing area.
The Playing Enclosure is the playing area and a spacj
metres where practicable, which is known as the perime
I In-goal is the area between the goal line and the dead b
I touch-in-goal lines. It includes the goal line but it does no
line or the touch-in-goal lines.
'The 22’ is the area between the goal line and the 22-n
metre line but excluding the goal line.
The Plan, including all the words and figures on it, is part of the Laws.
1.1	SURFACE OFTHE PLAYING ENCLOSURE
(a)	Requirement The surface must be sale to play on at all times.
(b)	Type of surface. The surface should be grass but may also be sand, clay, snow or an/c_
grass. The game may be played on snow, provided the snow and underlying surface are
safe to play on. It shall not be a permanently hard surface such as concrete or asphalt.
the case of artificial grass surfaces, they must conform to IRB Regulation 22.
1.2	REQUIRED DIMENSIONS FOR THE PLAYING ENCLOSURE
(a)	Dimensions. The field of play does not exceed 100 metres in length and 70 metres in
width. Each m-goal does not exceed 22 metres in length and 70 metres in width
23 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
I Law U The Ground

(b)	The length and breadth of the playing area are to be as near as possible to the dimensions
indicated All the areas are rectangular.
(c)	The distance from the goal line to the dead ball line should be not less than 10 metres
where practicable.
1.3	LINES ON THE PLAYING ENCLOSURE
(a)	Solid Lines
The dead ball lines and touch-m-goal lines, both of which are outside the m-goal areas,
The goal lines, which are within the m-goal areas but outside the field of play;
The 22-metre lines; which are parallel to the goat lines
The half way line which is parallel to the goal lines; and
The touchlines which are outside the field of play.
(b)	Broken Lines
The 10-metre lines, which run from one touchline to the other, are 10 metres from each
side of the half way line and parallel to it; and
The 5-metre lines, which run from one 5-metre dash line to the other, are 5 metres from
and parallel to the touchlines.
The 15-metre lines, which link the 5-metre dash lines, are 15 metres from and parallel to
the touchlines.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2009 24
Law 1
The Ground
(c)	Dash Unes
(i)	Six dash lines, each being I metre long, 5 metres from and parallel to each goal line
positioned 5 metres and 15 metres from each touchline and in front of each goal post
(ii)	Tw-o dash lines, 5 metres long, 15 metres from each of the touchlines, which start at re
goal line and end at the 5-metre dash line.
(iii)	One dash line of 0.5 metre long intersects the center of the half way line
All the lines must be suitably marked out according to the Plan.
			Total height exceeding 3.4m
	5.6m	A 3m to top y edge of bar
		
Goal posts
25 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
Law U The Ground

1.4	DIMENSIONS FOR GOAL POSTS AND CROSSBAR
(a)	The distance between the two goal posts is 5.6 metres.
(b)	The crossbar is placed between the two goal posts so that its top edge is 3.0 metres from
the ground.
(c)	The minimum height of the goal posts is 3.4 metres
(d)	When padding is attached to the goal posts the distance from the goal line to the external
edge of the padding must not exceed 300mm.
1.5	FLAG POSTS
(a)	There are 14 flag posts with flags, each with a minimum height of 1 2 metres above the
ground
(b)	Flag posts must be positioned at the intersection of touch-in-goal lines and the goal lines
and at the intersection of the touch-in-goal lines and the dead ball lines These eight flag
posts are outside the in-goal area and do not form part of the playing area
(c)	Flag posts must be positioned in line with the 22-metre lines and the half way line. 2 metres
outside the touchlines and within the playing enclosure
1.6	OBJECTIONS TO THE GROUND
(a) If either team has objections about the ground or the way it is marked out they must tell the
referee before the match starts
(b) The referee will attempt to resolve the issues but must not start a match if any part of the
ground is considered to be dangerous.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2009 26

Law 2
The Ball
2.1	SHAPE
The ball must be oval and made of lour panels.
2.2	DIMENSIONS
Length in line 280 - 300 millimetres
Circumference (end to end) 740 - 770 millimetres
Circumference fin width) 580 - 620 millimetres
2.3	MATERIALS
Leather or suitable synthetic material It may be treated to make it water resistant and
easier to grip.
27 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
Law 2 The Ball

2.4	WEIGHT
410 - 460 grams
AIR PRESSURE AT THE START OF PLAY
65.71-68.75 kilopascals, or 0.67-0 70 kilograms per square centimetre, or 9.5-10 0 lbs per
square inch.
2.6	SPARE BALLS
Spare balls may be available during a match, but a team must not gain or attempt to gam
an unfair advantage by using them or changing them.
2.7	SMALLER BALLS_______________
Balls of different sizes may be used for matches between young players
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2009 28
’ I •
Law 3 Number of Players - The Team
I
DEFINITIONS

A Team. A team consists of fifteen players who start the match'plus any
authorised replacements and/or substitutes.
K
Replacement A player who replaces an injured team-
Substitute. A player who replaces a team-mate for tactic
ins.
3.1	MAXIMUM NUMBER OF PLAYERS ON THE PLAYING AREA
Maximum each team must have no more than fifteen players on the playing area.
i.2	TEAM WITH MORE THAN THE PERMITTED NUMBER OF PLAI
Objection: at any time before or during a match a team may make an objection to the
referee about the number of players in their opponents' team As soon as the referee kncr
that a team has too many players, the referee must order the captain of that team to reCx*
the number appropriately The score at the time of the objection remains unaltered.
Penalty: Penalty at the place where the game would restart
3.3	WHEN THERE ARE FEWER THAN FIFTEEN PLAYERS
A Union may authorise matches to be played with fewer than fifteen players in each tea-
When that happens, all the Laws of the Game apply except that each team must have st
least five players in the scrum at all times
Exception: matches between teams of seven-a-side are an exception These matches are
covered by the seven-a-side variations to the Laws of the Game
29 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
Law 3 Number of Players - The Team
&
: 3.4 PLAYERS NOMINATED AS SUBSTITUTES
For international matches a Union may nominate up to seven replacements/subslitutes. For
other matches, the Union with jurisdiction over the match decides how many
replacements/subslitutes may be nominated to a maximum of seven.
A team can substitute up to two front row players and up to five other players Substitutions
may only be made when the ball is dead and with the permission of the referee
:3.5 SUITABLY TRAINED AND EXPERIENCED PLAYERS IN THE FRONT
HOW
(a)	The table below indicates the numbers of suitably trained and experienced players for the
front row when nominating different numbers of players
	 Number of suitably trained and experienced players	
15 or less	3 players who can play in the front row
16.17 or 18	4 players who can play in the front row
19.20.21 or 22	5 players who can play in the front row
(b)	Each player in the front row and any potential replacement(s) must be suitably trained and
experienced
(c)	When 19,20.21 or 22 players are nominated in a team there must be five players who can
play in the front row to ensure that on the first occasion that a replacement hooker is
required, and on the first occasion that a replacement prop forward is required, the team
can continue to play safely with contested scrums.
(d)	The replacement of a front row forward must come from suitably trained and experienced
players who started the match or from the nominated replacements.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2009
Law 3
Number of Players - The Team
3.6
SENT OFF FOR FOUL PLAY
A player sent off for foul play must not be replaced or substituted. For an exception to ta
law. refer to Law 3.13.
3.7	PERMANENT REPLACEMENT___________________
A player may be replaced if injured If the player is permanently replaced, that player r_-
not return and play in that match The replacement of the injured player must be made
when the ball is dead and with the permission of the referee
3.8 THE DECISION FOR PERMANENT R

(a)	When a national representative team is playing in a match, a player may be replaced zr
when, in the opinion of a doctor, the player is so injured that it would be unwise for tzi
player to continue playing in that match.
(b)	In other matches, where a Union has given explicit permission, an injured player may t-e
replaced on the advice of a medically trained person. If none is present, that player '
replaced if the referee agrees.
31 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
BLsiW 3 Number of Players - The Team
&
3.9	THE REFEREE’S POWER TO STOP AN INJURED PLAYER FROM
CONTINUING______________________________________
If the referee decides - with or without the advice of a doctor or other medically qualified
person - that a player is so injured that the player should stop playing, the referee may
order that player to leave the playing area The referee may also order an injured player to
leave the field in order to be medically examined.
3.10	TEMPORARY REPLACEMENT
(a)	When a player leaves the field to have bleeding controlled and/or have an open wound
covered, that player may be temporarily replaced If the player who has been temporarily
replaced does not return to the field of play within 15 minutes (actual time) of leaving the
playing area, the replacement becomes permanent and the replaced player must not return
to the field of play.
(b)	if the temporary replacement Is Injured, that player may also be replaced
(c)	If the temporary replacement is sent off for foul play, the replaced player may not return to
the field of play.
(d)	if a temporary replacement is cautioned and temporarily suspended, the replaced player
may not return to the field of play until after the period of suspension.
3.11	PLAYER WISHING TO REJOIN THE MATCH
(a)	A player who has an open or bleeding wound must leave the playing area. The player must
not return until the bleeding is controlled and the wound has been covered.
(b)	A player who leaves a match because of injury or any other reason must not rejoin the
match until the referee permits the player to return The referee must not let a player rejoin
a match until the ball is dead.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2009
Law 3 Number of Players - The Team
(c)	If the player rejoins the match without the referee’s permission, and the referee believes r
player did so to help that player’s team or obstruct the opposing team, the referee pena
the player for misconduct
Penalty: A penalty kick is awarded at the place where play would restart
3.12	SUBSTITUTED PLAYERS REJOINING THE MATCH
If a player is substituted, that player must not return and play in that match even to repx5
an injured player.
Exception 1: a substituted player may replace a player with a bleeding or open wound
Exception 2: a substituted player may replace a front row player when injured, tempers'
suspended or sent off.
3.13	FRONT ROW FORWARD SENT OFF OR TEMPOI
OR INJURED
(a)	If after a front row player has been sent off or during the time a front row player is
temporanly suspended, and there are no further front row players available from tne
nominated team, then uncontested scrums will be ordered It is not the responsibility of te
referee to determine the suitability of trained front row replacements nor their availably £
this is a team responsibility.
(b)	After a front row player is sent oft or during the time a front row player is temporarily
suspended the referee, upon awarding the next scrum, will ask that player’s captain
whether or not the team has another player on the field of play who is suitably trained to
play in the front row. If not, the captain chooses any player from that team who then m_s
leave the field of play and be replaced by a suitably trained front row player from the tear
replacements. The captain may do this immediately prior to the next scrum or after arrce
player has been tried in the front row.
(c)	When a period of temporary suspension ends and a front row player returns to the field tf
play, the replacement front row player leaves the field of play and the nominated player W-
left the field of piay for the period of the suspension may resume playing in the match.
INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
Law 3 Number of Players - The Team
&
(d)	Furthermore, if, because of sending off or injury, a team cannot provide enough suitably
trained front row players, the match continues with uncontested scrums.
(e)	An uncontested scrum is the same as a normal scrum, except that the teams do not
compete lor the ball, the team throwing in the ball must win it, and neither team is allowed
to push.
(f)	When the referee orders uncontested scrums, during a match, as a result of a team not
having suitably trained and experienced front row players in compliance with Law the
referee will report the matter to the Match Organiser.
(g)	When a team does not have suitably trained front row players prior to the match such that
contested scrums cannot take place the referee will order uncontested scrums. The referee
will report the matter to the Match Organiser.
(h)	A Match Organiser may determine within competition rules that a match may not
commence in the event of suitably trained and experienced players not being available prior
to a match.
3.14	ROLLING SUBSTITUTIONS
A Union may implement rolling substitutions at defined levels of the Game within its jurisdiction.
The number of substitutions must not exceed twelve. The administration and rules relating to
rolling substitutions are the responsibility of the Union having jurisdiction.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2009 34
Law 4 Players' Clothing
DEFINITIONS
Players’ clothing is anything players wear.
! A player wears a jersey, shorts and underwear, socks and
Detailed information relating to the permitted specificatitf
maybe found in IRB Specifications (Regulation 12).
4.1	ADDITIONAL ITEMSI OF CLOTHING
(a)	A player may wear supports made of elasticated or compressible materials which must vt
washable.
(0) A player may wear shin guards which conform with IRB Specifications (Regulation 12)
(c)	A player may wear ankle supports worn under socks, not extending higher than one tht ■
the length of the shin and, if rigid, from material other than metal.
(d)	A player may wear mitts (fingerless gloves) which must conform to IRB Specifications
(Regulation 12).
(e)	A player may wear shoulder pads which must bear the IRB Approval Mark (Regulation «2
(f)	A player may wear a mouth guard or dental protector.
(g)	A player may wear headgear which must bear the IRB Approval Mark (Regulation 12).
(h)	A piayer may wear bandages and/or dressings to cover or protect any injury
(i)	A player may wear thin tape or other similar material as support and/or to prevent in;jry
35 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
Law 4J Players' Clothing

4.2	SPECIAL ADDITIONAL ITEMS FOR WOMEN
Besides the previous items, women may wear chest pads which must bear the IRB Approval
Mark (Regulation 12).
(a)	Studs of players' boots must conform with the IRB Specifications (Regulation 12).
(b)	Moulded rubber multi-studded soles are acceptable provided they have no sharp edges or
ridges
4.4	BANNED ITEMS OF CLOTHING
(a)	A player must not wear any item that is contaminated by blood
(b)	A player must not wear any item that is sharp or abrasive.
(c)	A player must not wear any Items containing buckles, clips, rings, hinges, zippers, screws.
bolts or rigid material or projection not otherwise permitted under this Lav/
(d)	A player must not wear jewellery such as rings or earrings.
(e)	A player must not wear gloves.
(f)	A player must not wear shorts with padding sewn into them
(g)	A player must not wear any other item which does not conform with the IRB Specifications
for such clothing (Regulation 12).
(h)	A player must not wear any item that is normally permitted by Law, but, in the referee's
opinion that is liable to cause Injury to a player.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2009 36
Law 4 Players' Clothing
(i)	A player must not wear a single stud at the toe of the boot.
(j)	A player must not wear communication devices within that player's clothing or attached e
the body.
(k)	A player must not wear any additional item of clothing that does not conform to IRB
Regulation 12.
4.5	INSPECTION OF PLAYERS’ CLOTHING
(a)	The referee or the touch judges appointed by or under the authority of the match orgaria
must inspect the players' clothing and studs for conformity to this Law.
(b)	The referee has power to decide at any time, before or during the match, that part of a
player's clothing is dangerous or illegal. If the referee decides that clothing is dangerous tr
illegal the referee must order the player to remove it. The player must not take part in be
match until the items of clothing are removed.
(c)	If, at an inspection before the match, the referee or a touch judge tells a player that an cr
banned under this Law is being worn, and the player is subsequently found to be wear.';
that item on the play.ng area, that player is sent off for misconduct
Penalty: A penalty kick is awarded at the place where play is restarted.
4.6	WEARING OTHER CLOTHING
The referee must not allow any player to leave the playing area to change items of doff-*;
unless these are bloodstained
37 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
Law 5 Time
5.1	DURATION OF A MATCH
A match lasts no longer than eighty minutes plus time lost, extra time and any special
conditions. A match is divided into two halves each ol not more than forty minutes playing
time.
5.2	HALF-TIME
After half-time the teams change ends There is an interval of not more than 10 minutes.
The length of the interval is oecided by the match organiser, the Union or the recognised
body which has jurisdiction over the game. During the interval the teams, the referee and
the touch judges may leave the playing enclosure
A Union having jurisdiction over a match below international level may permit an interval ol
not more than 15 minutes
5.3	TIME KEEPING
The referee keeps the time but may delegate the duty to either or both the touch judges
and/or the official time-keeper, in which case the referee signals to them any stoppage of
time or time lost. In matches without an official time-keeper, if the referee is In doubt as to
the correct time the referee consults either or both the touch judges and may consult others
but only if the touch judges cannot help
5.4	TIME LOST
Time lost may be due to the following.
(a)	Injury. The referee may stop play for not more than one minute so that an injured player
can be treated, or for any other permitted delay.
The referee may allow play to continue while a medically trained person treats an injured
player in the playing area or the player may go to the touchline for treatment.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2009
I -
Law 5 Time
If a player is seriously injured and needs to be removed from the field of play, the referee
has the discretion to allow the necessary time to have the injured player removed from r?
field-of-play.
(b)	Replacing players’ clothing. When the ball is dead, the referee allows time for a player t
replace or repair a badly tom jersey, shorts or boots Time is allowed for a player to re-te
boot-lace.
(c)	Replacement and substitution of players. Time is allowed when a player is rep:aced cr
substituted.
(d)	Reporting of foul play by a touch judge. Time is allowed when a touch judge reports
play.
5.5	MAKING UP FOR TIME LOST

Any playing time lost is made up in the same half of the match
5.6	PLAYING EXTRA TIME

A match may last more than eighty minutes if the Match Organiser has authorised tne
playing of exha time in a drawn match in a knock-out competition
5.7	OTHER TIME REGULATIONS
(a)	In international malches, play always lasts eighty minutes plus lost time.
(b)	In non-international matches a Union may decide the length of a match
(c)	If the Union does not decide, the teams agree on the length of a match. If they cannot ay=-
the referee decides.
39 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
Law 5 Time
<0
I
(d)	The referee has the power to end the match at any time, if the referee believes that play
should not continue because it would be dangerous.
(e)	If time expires and the ball is not dead, or an awarded scrum or lineout has not been
completed the referee allows play to continue until the next time that the ball becomes
dead. If time expires and a mark, free kick or penalty kick is then awarded, the referee
allows play to continue.
(f)	II time expires after a try has been scored the referee allows time for the conversion kick to
be taken
(g)	When weather conditions are exceptionally hot and/or humid, the referee, at his discretion
will be permitted to allow one water break in each half. This water break should be no
longer than one minute. Time lost should be added on at the end of each hall. The water
break should normally be taken after a score or when the ball is out of play near the half
way line.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2009 40

Law 6 Match Officials
. DEFINITIONS
/ Every match is under the control of Match Officials who consist of the referee
and two touch judges or assistant referees. Additional persons, as authorised
by the match organisers may include the referee, reserve touch’Judge and/or
assistant referee, an official to assist the referee in makinfljgecfelons by using
technological devices, the time keeper, the match doctor, jhe team doctors, the
non-playing members of the teams and the ball persons.

A touch judge may be appointed by a match organiser or a tearn involved in a
match and is responsible for signalling, touch, touch in-gqfljfcflg the success or
otherwise of kicks at goal.
An assistant referee may be appointed by a match organlsSr afid is responsible
for signalling, touch, touch in-goal, the success or otherwise kicks at goal and
indicating foul play. An assistant referee will also provide ajBnmance to the refers
in the performance of any of the referee’s duties as directed b^the referee.
6.A REFEREE
BEFORE THE MATCH
I 6A1 APPOINTING THE REFEREE
The referee is appointed by the match organiser. If no referee has been appointed the two
teams may agree upon a referee If they cannot agree, the home team appoints a referee
6A2 REPLACING THE REFEREE
If the referee is unable to complete the match, the referee's replacement is appointed
according to the instructions of the match organiser. If the match organiser has given no
instructions, the referee appoints the replacement If the referee cannot do so, the home
team appoints a replacement
I
41 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
Law 6 Match Officials

6.A.3 DUTIES OF THE REFEREE BEFORE THE MATCH
(a)	Toss. The referee organises the toss One of the captains tosses a coin and the other
captain calls to see who wins the toss. The winner of the toss decides whether to kick off or
to choose an end. If the winner of the toss decides to choose an end. the opponents must
kick off and vice versa.
DURING THE: . CH
6.A.4 THE DUTIES OF THE REFEREE IN THE PLAYING ENCLOSURE
(a)	The referee is the sole judge of fact and of Law during a match. The referee must apply
fairly all the Laws of the Game in every match.
(b)	The referee keeps the time
(c)	The referee keeps the score.
(d)	The referee gives permission to the players to leave the playing area
(e)	The referee gives permission to the replacements or substitutes to enter the playing area.
(f)	The referee gives permission to the team doctors or medically trained persons or their
assistants to enter the playing area, as and when permitted by the Law.
(g)	The referee gives permission to each of the coaches to enter the playing area at half-time to
attend their teams during the interval
6.A.5 PLAYERS DISPUTING A REFEREE’S DECISION
Ail players must respect the authority of the referee. They must not dispute the referee’s
decisions. They must stop playing at once when the referee blows the whistle except at a
kick-off.
Penalty: Penalty Kick at the place of infringement or where play would next commence
UXWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2009 42

Law 6 Match Officials
6A6 REFEREE ALTERING A DECISION
The referee may alter a decision when a touch judge has raised the flag to to signal tazr
The referee may alter a decision when an assistant referee has raised the flag to s gnal
touch or an act of foul play
6A7 REFEREE CONSULTING WITH OTHERS	______
(a)	The referee may consult with assistant referees in regard to matters relating to their d/.=s
the Law relating to foul play or timekeeping and may request assistance related to other
aspects of the referee s duties including the adjudication of offside
(b)	A match organiser may appoint an official who uses technological devices. If the referee g
unsure when making a decision in in-goal involving a try being scored or a touch down, rz
official may be consulted.
(c)	The official may be consulted if the referee is unsure when making a decision in m-goai
with regard Io the scoring of a try or a touch down when foul play in in-goal may have cer
involved.
(d)	The official may be consulted in relation to the success or otherwise of kicks al goal.
(e)	The official may be consulted if the referee or assistant referees are unsure if a player was
or was not in touch when attempting to ground the ball to score a try
(f)	The official may be consulted if the referee or assistant referees are unsure when makn; 1
decision relating to touch-m-goal and the ball being made dead if a score may have
I” occurred
(gi A match organiser may appoint a timekeeper who will signify the end of each half
(h)	The referee must not consult with any other persons
43 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
©
Match Officials

6.A.8 THE REFEREE’S WHISTLE
(a) The referee must carry a whistle and blow the whistle to indicate the beginning and end of
each half of the match.
(b)	The referee has power to stop play at any time
(c)	The referee must blow the whistle to indicate a score, or a touch down.
(d)	The referee must blow the whistle to stop play because of an Infringement or for an offence
of foul play. When the referee cautions or sends off the offenoer, the referee must whistle a
second time when the penalty kick or penalty try is awarded
(e)	The referee must blow the whistle when the ball has gone out of play, or when it nas
become unplayable, or when a penalty is awarded.
(f)	The referee must blow the whistle when the ball or the ball carrier touches the referee and
either team gains an advantage from this.
(g)	The referee must blow the whistle when it would be dangerous to let play continue. This
includes when a scrum collapses, or when a front row player is lifted into the air or is forced
upwards out of a scrum, or when it is probable that a player has been seriously injured.
(h)	The referee may blow the whistle to slop play for any other reason according to the Laws.
6.A.9 THE REFEREE AND INJURY
(a) If a player is injured and continuation of play would be dangerous, the referee must blow the
whistle immediately.
(b)	If the referee stops play because a player has been injured, and there has been no
infringement and the ball has not been made dead, play restarts with a scrum. The team last
in possession throws in the ball If neither team was in possession, the attacking team throws
in the ball
(c)	The referee must blow the whistle if continuation of play would be dangerous for any reason.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2009 44
Law S Match Officials
_________
k 6.A.10 THE BALL TOUCHING THE REFEREE
(a) II the ball or the ball carrier touches the referee and neither team gains an advantage.
continues.
(b) If either team gains an advantage in the field of play, the referee orders a scrum and the
team that last played the ball has the throw-in.
(c)	If either team gains an advantage in in-goal, il the ball is in possession of an attacking
player the referee awards a try where the contact took place.
(d)	If either team gains an advantage in in-goal, if the ball is in possession of a defending
player, the referee awards a touch down where the contact took place.
|A11 THE BALL IN IN-GOAL TOUCHED BY NON-PI

The referee judges what would have happened next and awards a try or a touch down at
the place where the ball was touched
AFTER THE MATCH
_____________________________________________________
__________________________________	________________
The referee communicates the score Io the teams and to the match organiser.
________________
6.A.13 PLAYER SENT-OFF________________________	___________
If a player is sent off the referee gives the match organiser a written report on the foul ptay
infringement as soon as possible
45 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
Law ® Match Officials
&
6.B TOUCH JUDGES AND ASSISTANT REFEREES
BEFORE THE MATCH
TOUCH JUDGES AND ASSISTANT REFEREES
There are two touch judges or two assistant referees for every match. Unless they have
been appointed by or under the authority of the match organiser, each team provides a
touch judge.
A TOUCH JUDGE OR ASSISTANT REFEREE
The match organiser may nominate a person to act as a replacement for the referee, the
touch judges or assistant referees This person is called the reserve touch judge or reserve
assistant referee and stands in the perimeter area.
6.B.3 CONTROL OF TOUCH JUDGES AND ASSISTANT REFEREES
The referee has control over both touch judges or assistant referees. The referee may tell
them what their duties are. and may overrule their decisions. If a touch judge is
unsatisfactory the referee may ask that the touch judge be replaced If the referee believes
a touch judge is guilty of misconduct, the referee has power to send the touch judge off and
make a report to the match organiser.
DURING THE MATCH
6.B.4 WHERE THE TOUCH JUDGES OR ASSISTANT REFEREES SHOULD BE ]
(a) There is one touch judge or assistant referee on each side of the ground. The touch judge or
assistant referee remains in touch except when judging a kick at goal When judging a kick
at goal the touch judges or assistant referees stand in in-goal behind the goal posts.
(b) An assistant referee may enter the playing area when reporting an offence ol dangerous
play or misconduct to the referee. The assistant referee may do this only at the next
stoppage in play
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2009 46
Law 6
Match Officials

6.B.5 TOUCH JUDGE OR ASSISTANT REFEREE SIGNALS
(a) Each touch judge or assistant referee carries a flag or something similar with which to
signal decisions.
(b) Signalling result of kick at goal. When a
conversion kick or a penalty kick at goal is
being taken, the touch judges or assistant
referees must help the referee by signalling
the result of the kick. One touch judge or
assistant referee stands at or behind each
goal post If the ball goes over the cross-bar
and between the posts, the touch judges or
assistant referees raise the flags to indicate
a goal.
(c)	Signalling touch. When the ball or the ball
earner has gone into touch, the touch judge
or assistant referee must hold up the flag
The touch judge or assistant referee must
stand at the place of the throw-in and point
to the team entitled to throw in The touch
judge or assistant referee must also signal
when the ball or the ball carrier has gone
into touch-m-goal.
Kick at goal successful
Signalling touch and
team to throw in
47 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
Law <3 Match Officials

(d)	When to lower the flag. When the ball is thrown in, the touch judge or assistant referee
must lower the flag, with the following exceptions:
Exception 1: When the player throwing in puls any part of either foot in the field of play, the
touch judge or assistant referee keeps the flag up
Exception 2: When the team not entitled to throw In has done so, the touch judge or
assistant referee keeps the flag up.
Exception 3: When, at a quick throw-in, the ball that went into touch is replaced by another
ball, or after it went Into touch or it has been touched by anyone except the player who
takes the throw-in, the touch judge or assistant referee keeps the flag up
(e)	It is for the referee, and not the touch judge or assistant referee, to decide whether or not
the ball was thrown in from the correct place.
(I) Signalling foul play. An assistant referee
signals that foul play or misconduct has
been seen by holding the flag horizontally
and pointing infield at right angles to the
touchline.
Signalling foul play
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2009 48

Law 6 Match Officials
, 6.B.6 AFTER SIGNALUNG FOUL PLAY
J
A match organiser may give authority to the assistant referee to signal for foul p'ay. H an |
assistant referee signals foul play, the assistant referee must stay in touch and contnje t
carry out all the other duties until the next stoppage in play. At the invitation of the refer?!
the assistant referee may then enter the playing area to report the offence to the referee
The referee may then take whatever action is needed Any penalty awarded will be in
accordance with Law 10 - Foul Play.
AFTER THE MATCH
6.B.7 PLAYER SENT-OFF
	
If a player has been sent-off following an assistant referee’s signal and report to the
the assistant referee submits a written report about the incident to the referee as soon a
possb'e after the match and provides it to the match organiser.
6.C ADDITIONAL PERSONS
When a reserve touch judge or assistant referee is appointed, the referee’s autnomy
regarding replacements and substitutions may be delegated to the reserve touch judge cr
reserve assistant referee.
The match doctor and the non playing members of the team may enter the playing area 8
authonsed by the referee.
6.C.3 LIMITS TO ENTERING THE PLAYING AREA
In the case of injury, these persons may enter the playing area while play continues, prw3£|
tney have perm.ssion from the referee Otherwise, they enter only when the ball is dead
49 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
Law 7
Mode of Play

PLAYING A MATCH
A match is started by a kick-ofl
After the kick-off, any player who is onside may take the ball and run with it
Any player may throw it or kick it
Any player may give the ball to another player.
Any player may tackle, hold or push an opponent holding the ball
Any player may fall on the ball
Any p.'ayer may take part in a scrum, ruck, maul or lineout.
Any player may ground the ball in in-goal.
Whatever a player does must be in accordance with the Laws of the Game
51 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
Law 8 Advantage
DEFINITIONS
The Law of advantage takes precedence over most other Laws and its purpose Is
to make play more continuous with fewer stoppages for infringements. Players
are encouraged to play to the whistle despite infringements by their opponents.
When the result of an infringement by one team is that their opposing team may
gain an advantage, the referee does not whistle immediately for the infringement.
_____-iW -MBSur-.------ -_____-— •---- —iawn
8.1	ADVANTAGE IN PRACTICE
(a)	The referee is sole judge of whether or not a team has gained an advantage. The referee
has wide discretion when making decisions.
(b)	Advantage can be either territorial or tactical
(c)	Territorial advantage means a gam in ground.
(d)	Tactical advantage means freedom for the non-offending team to play the ball as they wish.
8.2	WHEN ADVANTAGE DOES NOTARISE
The advantage must be clear and real. A mere opportunity to gain advantage is not enough.
If the non-offending team does not gain an advantage, the referee blows the whistle and
brings play back to the place of infringement
8.3	WHEN THE ADVANTAGE LAW IS NOT APPLIED
(a)	Referee contact. Advantage must not be applied when the ball, or a player carrying it
touches the referee.
(b)	Ball out of tunnel. Advantage must not be applied when the ball comes out of either end of
the tunnel at a scrum without having oeen played.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2009
Law 8
Advantage
(c)	Wheeled scrum. Advantage must not be applied when the scrum is wheeled through rm
than 90 degrees (so that the middle line has passed beyond a position parallel to the
touchline).
(d)	Collapsed scrum. Advantage must not be applied when a scrum collapses The referee
must blow the whistle immediately
(e)	Player lifted In the air. Advantage must not be applied when a player In a scrum is lifted r
the air or forced upwards out o! the scrum. The referee must blow the whistle immediate
8.4	IMMEDIATE WHISTLE WHEN NO ADVANT/
The referee blows the whistle immediately once the referee decides an advantage canixt
be gained by the non-offending team
1.5	MORE THAN ONE INFRINGEMENT
(a)	If there is more man one infringement by the same team the referee applies the advance
Law.
(b)	If advantage is being played following an infringement by one team and then the other tear
commit an infringement, the referee blows the whistle and applies the sanctions assocr?:
with the first infringement
I
53 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
Law 9 Method of Scoring
9.A SCORING POINTS
9.A.1 POINTS VALUES___________________j
Try. When an attacking player is first to ground the
ball in the opponents' in-goal, a try is scored.
VALUE
5 points

Penalty Try. If a player would probably have scored a
try but for foul play by an opponent, a penalty try is
awarded between the goal posts.
5 points
Conversion Goal. When a player scores a try it gives
the player’s team the right to attempt to score a goal
by taking a kick al goal, this also applies to a penalty
try This kick is a conversion kick a conversion kick
can be a place kick or a drop kick.
Penalty Goal. A player scores a penalty goal by
kicking a goal from a penalty kick.
Dropped Goal. A player scores a dropped goal by
kicking a goal from a drop kick in general play. The
team awarded a free kick cannot score a dropped
goal until the ball next becomes dead, or until an
opponent has played or touched It, or has tackled the
ball carrier. This restriction applies also to a scrum
taken instead of a free kick.
2 points
3 points
3 points
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2009 54
Law 9 Method of Scoring
9.A.2 KICK AT GOAL - SPECIAL CIRCUMSTANCI______
(a)	If after the ball is kicked, it touches the ground or any team-mate of the kicker, a goal
cannot be scored.
(b)	if the ball has crossed the cross bar a goal is scored, even if the wind blows it back ina r?
field of play.
(c)	If an opponent commits an offence as the kick at goal is being taken, but neverthless «
kick is successful, advantage is played and the score stands.
(d)	Any player who touches the ball in an attempt to prevent a penalty goal being scored is
illegally touching the ball.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
9.B CONVERSION KICK
DEFINITIONS
When a player scores a try, it gives the player’s team the right to try to score a
goal by taking a kick at goal; this also applies to a penalty try. This kick is a
conversion kick. A conversion kick can be a place kick or a drop kick.
9.B.1 TAKING A CONVERSION KICK
(a)	The kicker must use the ball that was in play unless it is defective
(b)	The kick is taken on a line through the place where the try was scored.
(c)	A placer is a team-mate who holds the ball for the kicker to kick.
55 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
Law 9 Method of Scoring
(d)	The kicker may place the ball directly on the ground or on sand, sawdust or a kicking tee
approved by the Union
(e)	The kicker must take the kick within one minute from the time the kicker has indicated an
intention to kick. The intention to kick is signalled by the arrival of the kicking tee or sand,
or the player makes a mark on the ground The player must complete the kick within the
minute even if the ball rolls over and has to be placed again.
Penalty: The kick is disallowed if the kicker does not take the kick within the lime allowed.
9.B.2 THE KICKER’S TEAM
(a)	All the kicker's team, except the placer, must be behind the ball when it is kicked.
(b)	Neither the kicker nor a placer must do anything to mislead their opponents into charging
too soon
(c)	If the ball falls over before the kicker begins the approach to kick, the referee permits the
kicker to replace it without excessive delay. While the ball is replaced, the opponents must
stay behind their goal line.
If the ball falls over after the kicker begins the approach to kick, the kicker may then kick or
attempt a dropped goal
If the ball falls over and rolls away from the line through the place where the try was
scored, and the kicker then kicks the ball over the cross bar, a goal is scored
If the ball falls over and rolls into touch after the kicker begins the approach to kick, the kick
is disallowed
Penalty: (a)-(c) If the kicker's team infringes, the kick is disallowed
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2009 56
Law 9 Method of Scoring
01
9.B.3 THE OPPOSING TEAM
(a)	All players of the opposing team must retire to their goal line and must not overstep that tn»
until the kicker begins the approach to kick or starts to kick When the kicker does this. trey
may charge or jump to prevent a goal but must not be physically supported by other players
in these actons.
(b)	When the ball falls over after the kicker began the approach to kick, the opponents may
continue to charge.
(c)	A defending team must not shout during a kick at goal
Penalty: (a)-(c) If the opposing team infringes but the kick is successful, the goal stanos
If the kick is unsuccessful, the kicker may take another kick and the opposing team 6 nd
allowed to charge.
When another kick is allowed, the kicker may repeat all the preparations The kicker may
change the type of kick.
57 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
Law 10 Foul Play
(a)	Charging or pushing. When a player and an opponent are running for the ball, either player
must not charge or push the other except shoulder-to-shoulder.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(b)	Running in front of a ball carrier. A player must not intentionally move or stand in front ol
a team-mate carrying the ball thereby preventing opponents from tackling the current ball
carrier or the opportunity to tackle potential ball carriers when they gain possession.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(c)	Blocking the tackler. A player must not intentionally move or stand in a position that
prevents an opponent from tackling a ball carrier.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(d)	Blocking the ball. A player must not intentionally move or stand in a position that prevents
an opponent from playing the ball
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(e)	Ball carrier running into team-mate at a set-piece. A player carrying the ball after it has
left a scrum, ruck, maul or lineout must not run into team mates in front of the player.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(f)	Flanker obstructing opposing scrum half. A flanker in a scrum must not prevent an
opposing scrum half from advancing around the scrum
Penalty: Penalty Kick
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2009 58
® Foul Play

10.2	UNFAIR PLAY
(a)	Intentionally Offending. A player must not intentionally infringe any Law of the Game, c<
play unfairly. The player who intentionally offends must be either admonished, or cautioned
that a send off will result if the offence or a similar offence is committed, or sent off Ater a
caution a player is temporarily suspended for a period of ten minutes playing time Ater a
caution, the the player commits the same or similar offence, the player must be sent off.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
A penalty try must be awarded if the offence prevents a try that would probably otherwise
have been scored. A player who prevents a try being scored through foul play must either
be cautioned and temporarily suspended or sent off.
(b)	Time-wasting. A player must not intentionally waste time
Penalty: Free Kick
(c)	Throwing into touch. A player must not intentionally knock, place, push or throw tne bal
with his arm or hand into touch, touch-in-goal, or over the dead ball line
Penalty: Penalty Kick on the 15-metre line if the offence is between the 15 metre line rd
the touchline, or, at the place of infringement if the offence occured elsewhere in the field a
play, or, 5 metres from the goal line and at least 15 metres from the touchline if the
infringement occured in in-goal.
A penalty try must be awarded if the offence prevents a try that would probably otherwise
have been scored.
10.3	REPEATED INFRINGEMENTS	_______________________________
(a)	Repeatedly offending. A player must not repeatedly infringe any Law Repeated
infringement is a matter of fact. The question of whether or not the player intended to
infringe is irrelevant
Penalty: Penalty Kick
A player penalised for repeated infringements must be cautioned and temporarily
suspended. If that player then commits a further cautionable offence, or the same offeree.
the player must be sent off.
59 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
Law 10 Foul Play
(b)	Repeated infringements by the team. When different players of the same team repeatedly
commit the same offence, the referee must decide whether or not this amounts to repeated
infringement If it does, the referee gives a general warning to the team and if they then
repeat the offence, the referee cautions and temporarily suspends the guilty player(s) for a
period of 10 minutes playing time. If a player of that same team then repeats the offence
the referee sends off the guilty player(s).
Penalty: Penalty Kick
A penalty try must be awarded if tne offence prevents a try that would probably otherwise
have been scored.
(c)	Repeated infringements: standard applied by referee. When the referee decides how
many offences constitute repeated infringement, the referee must always apply a strict
standard in representative and senior matches. When a player offends three times the
referee must caution that player.
The referee may relax this standard in junior or minor matches, where infringements may be
the result of poor knowledge of the Laws or lack of skill
10.4	DANGEROUS PLAY AND MISCONDUCT
(a) Punching or striking. A player must not strike an opponent with the fist or arm, including
the elbow, shoulder, head or knee(s).
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(b) Stamping or trampling. A player must not stamp or trample on an opponent
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(c)	Kicking. A player must not kick an opponent
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(d)	Tripping. A player must not trip an opponent with the leg or foot.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2009 60
Foul Play
(e)	Dangerous tackling. A player must not tackle an opponent early, late or dangerously.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
A player must not tackle (or try to tackle) an opponent above the line of the shoulderseer
it the tackle starts below the line of the shoulders. A tackle around the opponent's neck cr
head is dangerous play.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
A 'stiff-arm tackle' is dangerous play A player makes a stiff-arm tackle when using a
amn to stake an opponent.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
Playing a player without the call is dangerous play.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
A player must not tackle an opponent whose feet are off the ground.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
Advantage may be played, but if the offence prevents a probable try, a penalty try must bi
awarded.
(f)	Playing an opponent without the ball. Except in a scrum, ruck or maul, a player must re
hold, or push, or charge into, or obstruct an opponent not carrying the ball
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(g)	Dangerous charging. A player must not charge or knock down an opponent carrying tre
ball without trying to grasp that player.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(h)	Tackling the jumper in the air. A player must not tackle nor tap, push or pull the foot cr
feet of an opponent jumping for the ball in a lineout or in open play.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(0 Lifting a player from the ground and dropping or driving that player into the ground whist
that player's feet are stiil off the ground such that the player's head and/or upper body
come into contact with the ground first is dangerous play
Penalty: Penalty Kick
61 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
Law HO Foul Play
(I) Dangerous play in a scrum, ruck or maul. The front row of a scrum must not rush against
its opponents.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
Front row players must not intentionally lift opponents off their feet or force them upwards
out of the scrum
Penalty: Penalty Kick
Players must not charge into a ruck or maul without binding onto a player In the ruck or
maul.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
Players must not intentionally collapse a scrum, ruck or maul
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(k) Retaliation. A player must not retaliate. Even if an opponent is infringing the Laws, a player
must not do anything that is dangerous to the opponent.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
((I) Acts contrary to good sportsmanship. A player must not do anything that Is against the
spirit of good sportsmanship in the playing enclosure.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(rm) Misconduct while the ball is out of play. A player, must not, while the ball is out of play.
commit any misconduct, or obstruct or in any way interfere with an opponent.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
The penalty is the same as for sections 10.4 (a)-(k) except that the penalty kick is awarded
at the place where play would restart. If that place is on the touchline or within 15 metres of
it, the mark for the penalty kick Is on the 15-metre line, in line with that place.
UXWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2009
62
Law 10 Foul Play

II play would restart at a 5-metre scrum, the mark (or the penalty kick is at that place d re
scrum.
If play would restart with a drop-out, the non-offending team may choose to take the
penalty kick anywhere on lhe 22-metre line.
II a penalty kick is awarded but the offending team is guilty of further misconduct before
kick is taken, the referee cautions or orders off lhe guilty player and advances the mark tr
the penalty kick 10 metres. This covers both the original offence and the misconduct
If a penalty kick is awarded Io a team but a player of that team is guilty of further
misconduct before the kick is taken, the referee will caution or send-off the guilty player
declare the kick disallowed, and award a penalty kick to the opposing team.
If an offence is committed outside the playing area while lhe ball is still in play, and if tr£
offence is not covered by any other part of this Law, the penalty kick is awarded on the 15-
metre line, in line with where lhe offence happened
For an offence reported by a touch judge a penalty kick may be awarded where the offeree
happened, or advantage may be played
(n) Late-charging the kicker. A player must not intentionally charge or obstruct an oppone.";
who has just kicked the ball.
Penalty: The non-oflending team may choose to take the penalty kick either at the place tf
infringement, where the ball lands, or where it was next played.
Place of infringemenL If the infringement takes place in the kicker’s m-goal, lhe penary
kick is taken 5 metres from the goal line in line with the place of infringement but al least
15 metres from the touchline
The non-offending team may also choose to take lhe penalty kick where the ball lands or 6
next played and al least 15 metres from the touchline.
Where the ball lands. If the ball lands in touch, the mark for the optional penalty kick is c'
the 15-metre line, in line with where it went into touch. If the ball lands within 15 metres c>
the touchline, the mark is on the 15-metre line opposite where it landed.
63 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
Law 10 Foul Play

Late charging the kicker
If the ball lands in the m-goal, in touch-in-goal, or on or over the dead ball line, the mark for
the optional penalty kick is 5 metres from the goal line, in line with the place where the ball
crossed the goal line and at least 15 metres from the touchline
If the ball hits a goal post or crossbar, the optional penalty kick is awarded where the ball
lands on the ground
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2009 64
Law 10 Foul Play

(o) Flying Wedge and Cavalry Charge. A team must not use the 'Flying Wedge' or the 'Cara’rj
Charge'
Penalty. Penalty Kick at the place of the original infringemenL
'Flying Wedge’. The type ol attack known as a 'Flying Wedge' usually happens near tne
goal line, when the attacking team is awarded a penalty kick or free kick.
The kicker tap-kicks the ball and starts the attack, either by driving towards the goal Ire cr
by passing to a team-mate who drives forward. Immediately, team males bind on each s Oe
of the ball carrier in a wedge formation Often one or more of these team mates is in front
of the ball carrier A Flying Wedge' is illegal
Penalty: Penalty Kick at the place of the onginal infringement.
'Cavalry Charge'. The type of attack known as a 'Cavalry Charge' usually happens near re
goal line, when the attacking team is awarded a penalty kick or free kick. Attacking payers
form a line across the field some distance behind the kicker
These attacking players are usually a metre or two apart. At a signal from the kicker they
charge forward Wnen they get near, the kicker tap-kicks the ball and passes it to one of
them
Until the ball is kicked, the defending team must stay at least 10 metres from the mark or
behind their goal line, if that is nearer A 'Cavalry Charge' is illegal.
Penalty: Penalty Kick at the place of the original infringement
65 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
Law 10 Foul Play
10.5	SANCHO
(a)	Any player who infringes any part of the Foul Play Law must be admonished, or cautioned
and temporarily suspended, or sent-off.
(b)	A player who has been cautioned and temporarily suspended who then commits a second
cautionable offence within the Foul Play Law must be sent-off
(a)	When a player has been cautioned and temporarily suspended in an International match the
referee will show that player a yellow card.
(b)	When a player has been sent off in an International match, the referee will show that play
a red card
(c)	For other matches the Match Organiser or Union having jurisdiction over the match may
decide upon the use of yellow and red cards.
10.7	PLAYER SENT OFF________________
A player who is sent-off takes no further part in the match.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2009 66
Law 11 Offside and Onside in General Play

EF1NITI0NS
; At the start of a game all players are onside. As the mi
. may find themselves in an offside position. Such playe
penalized until they become onside again.
In general play a player is offside if the player is in fr
carrying the ball, or in front of a team-mate who last
! Offside means that a player is temporarily out of the
to be penalized if they take part in the game.
In general play, a player can be put onside either by
by an action of an opponent. However, the offside pl
the offside player interferes with play; or moves forw
’ to move 10 metres away from the place where the bi
grasses players
len liable to be
•mate who is
jch players are fiabie |
>f a team-mate or
it be put onside if
ds the ball, or fafc i
£
1.1	OFFSIDE IN GENERAL PLAY
(a)	A player who is in an offside position is liable to penalty only if the player does one of tnree
things:
• interferes with play or,
• Moves forward, towards the ball or
• Fails to comply with the 10-Metre Law (Law 11.4).
A player who is in an offs'de position is not automatically penalised.
A player who receives an unintentional throw forward is not offside.
A player can be offside in the in-goal.
(b)	Offside and interfering with play. A player who is offside must not take part In the gams
This means the player must not play the ball or obstruct an opponent.
(c)	Offside and moving forward. When a team-mate of an offside player has kicked ahead.
the offside player must not move towards opponents who are waiting to play the ball, or
move towards the place where the ball lands, until the player has been put onside
67 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
Law H 1 Offside and Onside in General Play
11.2	BEING PUT ONSIDE BY THE ACTION OF A TEAM-MATE
In general play, there are four ways by which an offside player can be put onside by actions
of that player or of team mates.
(a)	Action by the player. When the offside player runs behind the team male who last kicked,
touched or carried the ball, the player is put onside.
(b)	Action by the ball carrier. When a team-mate carrying the ball runs in front of the offside
player, that player is put onside.
(c)	Action by the kicker or other onside player. When the kicker, or team-male who was
level with or behind the kicker when (or after) the ball was kicked, runs in front of the
offside player, the player is put onside
(d)	When running forward, the team-mate may be in touch or in touch-in-goal. but that team-
mate must return to the playing area to put the other player onside.
Offside player
runs behind
ball carrier
Team-mate
with ball runs
ahead
Team-mate kicks,
runs ahead or another
onside team-mate
runs ahead
Player made onside by team-mate
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2009 68
Law 11 Offside and Onside in General Play
11.3	BEING PUT ONSIDE BY OPPONENTS
In general play, there are three ways by which an offside player can be put onside b/ an
action of the opposing team These three ways do not apply to a player who is offs de
the 10-Metre Law.
(a)	Runs 5 metres with ball. When an opponent carrying the ball runs 5 metres, the offs4e
player is put onside.
lb) Kicks or passes. When an opponent kicks or passes the ball, the offside player is put
onside.
(c)	Intentionally touches ball. When an opponent intentionally touches the ball but does rct
catch it, the offside player is put onside
play	Opponent runs	Opponent
	five metres with	kicks or
	ball	passes
Opponent
intentionally
touches ball
Player put onside by opponents
69 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
Law H U Offside and Onside in General Play
11.4	OFFSIDE UNDER THE 10-METRE LAW
(a)	When a team-male of an offside player has kicked ahead, the offside player is considered to
be taking part in the game if the player is in front of an imaginary line across the field which
is 10 metres from the opponent waiting to play the ball, or from where the ball lands or may
land. The offside player must immediately move behind the imaginary 10-metre line While
moving away, the player must not obstruct an opponent
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(b)	While moving away, the offside player cannot be put onside by any action of the opposing
team However, before the player has moved the full 10 metres, the player can be put
onside by any onside team-male who runs in front of the player
(c)	When a player who is offside under the 10-Melre Law charges an opponent wailing to catch
the ball, the referee blows the whistle at once and the offside player is penalised. Delay may
prove dangerous to the opponent.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(d)	When a player who is offside under the 10-Metre Law plays lhe ball which has been
misfielded by an opponent, the offside player is penalised.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(e)	The 10-Metre Law is not altered by the fact that lhe ball has hit a goal post or a crossbar
What matters is where the ball lands. An offside player must not be in front of the imaginary
10-metre line across the field
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(f)	The 10-Metre Law does not apply when a player kicks the ball, and an opponent charges
down lhe kick, and a team-mate of the kicker who was in front of lhe imaginary 10-metre
line across the field then plays lhe ball. The opponent was not ‘waiting to play the ball' and
lhe team-mate is onside
Penalty: When a player is penalised for being offside m general play, the opposing team
chooses either a penalty kick at the place of infringement or a scrum at the place where the
offending team last played the ball. If it was last played in that team's m-goal. lhe scrum is
formed 5 metres from the goal line in line with where it was played
(g)	If more than one player is offside and moving forward after a team-mate has kicked ahead,
the place of infringement is the position of the offside player closest to an opponent waiting
for the ball, or closest to where the ball lands.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2009
Law 1 U Offside and Onside in General Play
11.5	BEING PUT ONSIDE UNDER THE 10-METRE LAW
(a) The offside player must retire behind the imaginary 10-metre line across the field, others
the player is liable to be penalised
(b)	While retiring, the player can be put onside before moving behind the imaginary 10-meue
line by any of the three actions of the player's team listed above in 11.2 However, tne
player cannot be put onside by any action of the opposing team
11.6	ACCIDENTAL OFFSIDE
(a)	When an offside player cannot avoid being touched by the ball or by a team-mate carryr*Q
it. the player is accidentally offside. If the player's team gains no advantage from this, ptey
continues. If the player’s team gains an advantage, a scrum is formed with the oppose
team throwing m the ball
(b) When a player hands the ball to a team mate in front of the first player, the receiver is
offside. Unless the receiver is considered to be intentionally offside (in which case a pr'iT
kick is awarded), the receiver is accidentally offside and a scrum is formed with the
opposing team throwing in the bail.
11.7	OFFSIDE AFTER A KNOCK-ON
When a player knocks-on and an offside team-mate next plays the ball, the offside players
liable to penalty il playing the ball prevented an opponent from gaining an advantage.
Penalty. Penalty Kick
71 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
Law 'll U Offside and Onside in General Play

\YER RETIRING DURING A RUCK, MAUL,
When a ruck, maul, scrum or lineout forms, a player who is offside and is retiring as
required by Law remains offside even when the opposing team wins possession and the
ruck, maul, scrum or lineout has ended. The player is put onside by retiring behind the
applicable offside line. No other action of the offside player and no action of that player’s
team mates can put the offside player onside
If the player remains offside the player can be put onside only by the action of the opposing
team. There are two such actions
Opponent runs 5 metres with ball. When an opponent carrying the ball has run 5 metres,
the offside player is put onside. An offside player is not put onside when an opponent
passes the ball Even if the opponents pass the ball several times, their action does not put
the offside player onside.
Opponent kicks. When an opponent kicks the ball, the offside player is put onside
11.9	LOITERING
A player wno remains in an offside position is loitering A loiterer who prevents the opposing
team from playing the ball as they wish is taking part in the game, and is penalised The
referee makes sure that the loiterer does not benefit from being put onside by the opposing
team’s action
Penalty: Penalty Kick
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2009 72

LdW 12 Knock-on or Throw Forward
73 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
Law 12 Knock-on or Throw Forward
DEFINITION: THROW FORWARD
A throw forward occurs when a player throws or passes the ball forward.
‘Forward’ means toward^ the opposing team's dead ball line.
EXCEPTION I
Bounce forward. If t,he ballWnot thrown forward but it hits a player or the
ground and bounces f^wanfi^his is not a throw forward.
Charge down
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2009 74
yt->
Law 12 Knock-on or Throw Forward
12.1	THE OUTCOME OF A KNOCK-ON OR THROW FORWARD
(a) Unintentional knock-on or throw forward. A scrum is awarded at the place of
infringement
(b)	Unintentional knock-on or throw forward at a lineout. A scrum is awarded 15 metres
from the touchline
(c)	Knock-on or throw forward into the in-goal. If an attacking player knocks-on or IhrOAi-
forward in the field of play and the ball goes into the opponents' in-goal and it is made te
there, a scrum is awarded where the knock-on or throw forward happened.
(d)	Knock-on or throw forward inside the in-goal. If a player of either team knocks-on a
throws-forward inside the in-goal, a 5-metre scrum is awarded in line with the place of
infringement not closer than 5 metres from the touchline
(e)	Intentional knock or throw toward. A player must not intentionally knock the ball fon»s
with hand or arm, nor throw forward.
Penalty. Penalty Kick. A penalty try must be awarded if the offence prevents a try that
would probably otherwise have been scored
Law 13 Kick-off and Restart Kicks

Fl
The kickoff occurs at the start of the match and the'restart of the match after hail-
time. Restart kicks occur after a score or a touch dbvyn.
13.1	WHERE AND HOW THE KICK-OFF IS TAKEN
(a) A team kicks off with a drop kick which must be taken at or behind the centre of the ha.1
way line
(b) If the ban is kicked off by the wrong type of kick, or from the incorrect place, the opposr:
team has two choices.
To have the ball kicked off again, or
To have a scrum at the centre of the half way line and they throw in the ball.
13.2	WHO TAKES THE KICK-OFF AND REST
(a) At the start of the game, the team whose captain elected to lake the kick after winning me
toss will kickoff, or the opposing team if the winning captain elected to choose an end.
(b) After the half-time interval, the opponents of the team who kicked off at the start of the
game kick off.
(c)	After a score the opponents of the team who scored restart play.
13.3	POSITION OF THE KICKER’S TEAM AT A KICK-OFF
All the kicker’s team must be behind the ball when it is kicked. If they are not, a scrum a •
formed at the centre. Their opponents throw in the ball.
I
77 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
Law 13 Kick-off and Restart Kicks
13.4	POSITION OF THE OPPOSING TEAM AT A KICK-OFF
All the opposing team must stand on or behind the 1O-metre line. II they are in front of that
line or if they charge before the ball is kicked, it is kicked off again
Kick-off
13.5	KICK-OFF OF 10 METRES
If the ball reaches the opponents' 10-melre line or reaches the 10-melre line and is blown
back, play continues.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2009 78
Law 13 Kick-off and Restart Kicks
13.6	KICK-OFF OF UNDER 10 METRES BUT PLAYED BY AN OPPONENT
If the ball does not reach the opponent’s 10-metre line but is first played by an opponent
play continues.
13.7	KICK-OFF OF UNDER 10 METRES AND NOT PLAYED BY AN
OPPONENT____________________
If the ball does not reach the opponent’s 10-metre line the opposing team has tv.o choces
To have the ball kicked off again, or
To have a scrum at the centre They throw in tne ball
ZZZZZZj
The ball must land in the field of play. If it is kicked directly into touch the opposing team
has three choices:
To have the ball kicked off again, or
To have a scrum at the centre and they have the throw-in, or
To accept the kick.
If they accept the kick, the lineout is on the half way line If the ball is blown behind tne teT
way line and goes directly into touch, the lineout is at the place where it went mlo touch.
79 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
Law U3 Kick-off and Restart Kicks
13.9	BALL GOES INTO THE IN-GOAL
(a)
(b)
(0
If the ball is kicked into the in-goal without having touched or been touched by a player, the
opposing team has three choices:
To grouno the ball, or
To make it dead, or
To play on.
If the opposing team grounds the ball, or if they make it dead, or if the ball becomes dead
by going into touch-in-goal or on or over the dead ball line, they have two choices:
To have a scrum formed at the centre, and they throw in the ball, or
To have the other team kick off again.
II they opt to ground the ball or make it dead, they must do so without delay. Any other
action with the ball by a defending player means the player has elected to play on.
13.10 DROP-Ol
F DEFINITION
A drop-out is used to restart play after an attacking player has put or taken the
ball into the in-goal, without Infringement, and a defending player has made the
ball dead there or it has gone into touch-in-goal or on or over the dead ball lino.
A drop-out is a drop kick taken by the defending team. The drop-out may be
taken anywhere on or behind the 22-metre line.
13.11 DELAY IN DROP-OUT
The drop-out must be taken without delay
Penalty: Free Kick on the 22-metre line.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2009
Law 13 Kick-off and Restart Kicks
<^l
13.12	DROP-OUT INCORRECTLY TAKEN	__________
If the ball is kicked with the wrong type of kick, or from the wrong place, the opposing tea^
has two choices.
To have another drop-out, or
To have a scrum at the centre of the 22-metre line and they throw in the ball.
13.13	DROP-OUT MUST CROSS THE LINE
(a)	If the ball does not cross the 22-metre line, the opposing team has two choices.
To have another drop-out, or
To have a scrum at the centre of the 22-metre line.
They throw in the ball
ib) If the ball crosses the 22-metre line but is blown back, play continues.
(c) If the ball does not cross the 22-metre line, advantage may apply. An opponent who plays
the ball can score a try
The ball must land in the field of play. If it is kicked directly into touch, the opposing learn
has three choices:
To have another drop-out, or
To have a scrum at the centre of the 22-metre line, and they throw in the ball, or
To accept the kick. If they accept the kick, the throw-in is on the 22-metre line
81 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
Law H3 Kick-off and Restart Kicks
&
13.15 DROP-OUT GOES INTO THE OPPONENTS IN-GOAL
(a)	If the ball is kicked into the opponent's in-goal without having touched or been touched by a
player, the opposing team has three choices.
To ground the ball, or
To make it dead, or
To play on
(b)	If the opposing team grounds the ball, or makes it dead, or if the ball becomes dead by
going into touch-in-goal or on or over the dead ball line, they have two choices-
To have a scrum formed at the centre of the 22-metre line from where the kick was taken
and they throw in the ball, or
To have tbe other team drop-out again.
(c)	If they opt to ground the ball or make it dead, they must do so without de’ay Any other
action with the ball by a defending player means the player has elected to play on.
________________________ _________________________________________________________________

(a)	All the kicker’s team must be behind the ball when it is kicked If not. a scrum is formed at
the centre of the 22-metre line The opposing team throws in the ball
Co) However, if the kick is taken so quickly that players of the kicker's team who are retiring are
still in front of the ball, they will not be penalised They must not stop retiring until they have
been made onside by an action of a team-mate They must not take part in the game until
they have been made onside in this way
Penalty: Scrum at the centre of the 22-metre line. The opposing team throws in the ball.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2009 82
Law 13 Kick-off and Restart Kicks

13.17	THE OPPOSING TEAM	_______________
(a)	The opposing team must not charge over the 22-metre line before the ball is kicked.
Penalty: Free Kick at tne place of infringement
(b)	If an opponent is on the wrong side of the 22-metre line and delays or obstructs the drop-
out, the player is guilty of misconduct.
Penalty: Penalty Kick on the 22-metre line
83 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
Law 14 Ball on the Ground - No Tackle
definition
This situation occurs when the ball is available on the ground and a player goes
to ground to gather the ball, except immediately after a scrum or a ruck.
It also occurs when a pleyer Is on the ground in possession of the ball and has
not been tackled.
The Game is to bo playeif by players who are on their feet A player must not
make the ball unplayab® by falling down. Unplayable means that the ball is not
immediately availablelffljjffljffipam so that play may continue.
A player who makes th4£alliffi5fayable. or who obstructs the opposing team by
falling down, is negati|HRhfflfl||pose and Spirit of the Game and must be
penalised.
A player who is not tagfcd.jB.'Who goes to ground while holding the ball, or a
player who goes to groilhd anjgathers the ball, must actimmediately.
ND
The player must immediately do one of three things
Get up with the ball, or
Pass the ball, or
Release the ball
A player who passes or releases the ball must also get up or move away from it at once.
Advantage is played only if it happens immediately.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2009
Law 14 Ball on the Ground - No Tackle

14.2	WHAT THE PLAYER MUST NOT DO	______________
(a)	Lying on or around the ball. A player must not lie on, over, or near the ball to prevent
opponents getting possession of it.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(b)	Falling over the player on the ground with the ball. A player must not intentionally fan on
or over a player with the ball who is lying on the ground.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(c)	Falling over players lying on the ground near the ball. A player must not intentionally fal
on or over players lying on the ground with the ball between them or near them
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(d)	A player on the ground. A player on the ground must not tackle an opponent or attempt b
tackle an opponent
Penalty: Penalty Kick
85 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
ILaw 15 Tackle: Ball Carrier Brought to Ground
AA tackle occurs when theballcarrier Is held by one or more opponents and Is
tbrought to ground.
A A ball carrier who is not-held ispot a tackled player and a tackle has not taken
fall carrier and bring that player to ground, and
[as tacklers.
all carrier and do not go to ground are not
A tackle can only take place in the field of play
15.1 WHERE CAN A TACKLE TAKE PLACE
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2009
Law 15 Tackle: Ball Carrier Brought to Ground
0
15.2	WHEN A TACKLE CANNOT TAKE PLACE
When the ball carrier is held by one opponent and a team-mate binds on to that ball can#.
a maul has been formed and a tackle cannot take place
______
15.3	BROUGHT TO THE GROUND DEFINI__________
(a)	If the ball carrier has one knee or both knees on the ground, that player has been •bcougm
to ground'.
(b)	If the ball carrier is sitting on the ground, or on top of another player on the ground the tai
carrier has been brought to ground'.
5.4	THE TACKLER___________________	_________
(a)	When a player tackles an opponent and they both go to ground, the tackler must
immediately release the tackled player.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(b)	The tackler must immediately get up or move away from the tackled player and from tne
bail at once
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(c)	The tackler must gel up before playing the ball and then may play the ball from any
direction.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
________________
15.5	THE TACKLED PLAYER	___________
(a) A tackled player must not lie on. over, or near the ball to prevent opponents from gain ng
possession of it, and must try to make the ball available immediately so that play can
continue
Penalty: Penalty Kick
87 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
Law 15 Tackle: Ball Carrier Brought to Ground

(b) A tackled player must immediately pass the ball or release it. That player must also gel up
or move away from it at once.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(c)	A tackled player may release the ball by putting it on the ground in any direction, provided
this is done immediately.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(d)	A tackled player may release the ball by pushing it along the ground in any direction except
forward, provided this is done immediately.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
Tackled player must release the ball immediately
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2009 88
Law 15 Tackle: Ball Carrier Brought to Ground
(e)	If opposition players who are on their feet attempt to play the ball, the tackled player rrus
release the ball.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(f)	If a tackled player’s momentum carries the player into the in-goal, the player can score a n
or make a touch down.
(g)	If players are tackled near the goal line, these players may immediately reach out and
ground the ball on or over the goal line to score a try or make a touch down
A player tackled near the goal line can reach out
and ground the ball to score a try
15.6 OTHER PLAYERS
(a)	After a tackle, all other players must be on their feet when they play the ball Players are or
their feet if no other part of their body is supported by the ground or players on the grocni
Penalty: Penalty Kick
89 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
ILaw 15 Tackle: Ball Carrier Brought to Ground

After a tackle all of the players must be on their feet
when they play the ball
Player off his feet and playing the ball at the tackle
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2009 90
(b)	After a tackle any players on their feet may attempt to gam possession by taking the Dal
from the ball carriers possession.
(c)	Players in opposrtion to the ball carrier who remain on their feet who bring the ball carter d
ground so that the player is tackled must release the ball and the ball carrier. Those players
may then play the ball providing they are on their feet and do so from behind the bal and
from directly behind the tackled player or a tackler closest to those players' goal line.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(d)	At a tackle or near to a tackle, other players who play the ball must do so from behind tte
ball and from directly behind the tackled player or the tackler closest to those players' ££
line.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
91 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
LLaw 15 Tackle: Ball Carrier Brought to Ground
&
(e)	Any player who gains possession of the ball at the tackle must play the ball immediately by
moving away or passing or kicking the ball.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
Any piayer who First gains possession of the ball must not go to the ground at the tackle or
near to it unless tackled by an opposition player.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(g)	Any player who first gains possession of the ball at the tackle or near to it may be tackled
by an opposition player providing that player does so from behind the ball and from directly
behind the tackled player or the tackler closest to that player's goal line
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(h)	After a tackle, any player lying on the ground must not prevent an opponent from getting
possession of the ball.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(i)	After a tackle, any player on the ground must not tackle an opponent or try to tackle an
opponent.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
0 When a tackled player reaches out to ground the ball on or over the goal line to score a try,
an opponent may pull the ball from the players possession, but must not kick the ball.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
Exception: Ball goes into the in-goal After a tackle near the goal line, if the ball has been
released ano has gone into the in-goal any player, including a player on the ground, may
ground the ball

(a)	No player may prevent the tackled player from passing the ball
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(b)	No player may prevent the tackled player from releasing the ball and getting up or moving
away from it.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2009 92
Law 15 Tackle: Ball Carrier Brought to Ground
(c)	No player may fall on or over toe tackled player.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
No player may fall on or over a tackled player
(d)	No player may fall on or over toe players lying on toe ground after a tackle wito toe ba'J
between or near to them
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(e)	Players on their feet must not charge or obstruct an opponent who is not near toe tel
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(f)	Danger may arise if a tackled player fails to release the ball or move away from it
immediately, or if that player is prevented from so doing If either of these happens toe
referee awards a penalty kick immediately
Penalty: Penalty Kick
15.8	DOUBT ABOUT FAILURE TO COMPLY
If toe ball becomes unplayable at a tackle and there is doubt about which player did not
conform to Law, the referee orders a scrum immediately with the throw-in by toe team tos!
was moving forward prior to the stoppage or, if no team was moving forward, by toe
attacking team
93 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
ILaw 16 Ruck
■DEFINITIONS
AA ruck is a phase of play where one or more players from each team, who are on
ttheir feet, in physical contact, close around the ball on the ground. Open play has
eended.
F Rucking. Players are ruc®g rawi they are in a ruck and using their feet to try to
Mwin or keep possession affine without being guilty of foul play.
Ruck
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2009 94
Law 16 Ruck
16.1	FORMING A RUCK
(a)	Where can a ruck take place. A ruck can take place only in the field of play
(b)	How can a ruck form. Players are on their feet. At least one player must be in physical
contact with an opponent. The ball is on the ground.
16.2	JOINING A RUCK____________
(a)	All players forming, joining or taking part in a ruck must have their heads and shoulders ru
lower than their hips.
Penalty: Free Kick
(b)	A player joining a ruck must bind onto the ruck with at least one arm around the body of a
team-mate, using the whole arm
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(c)	Placing a hand on another player in the ruck does not constitute binding
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(d)	All players forming, joining or taking part in a ruck must be on their feet.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
16.3	RUCKING
(a) Players in a ruck must endeavour to stay on their feet
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(b) A player must not intentionally fall or kneel in a ruck. This is dangerous play.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(c)	A player must not intentionally collapse a ruck. This is dangerous play
Penalty: Penalty Kick
95 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
I Law 16 Ruck
(d)	A player must not jump on top of a ruck.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(e)	Players must have their heads and shoulders no lower than their hips.
Penalty: Free Kick
(0 A player rucking for the ball must not intentionally ruck players on the ground A player
rucking for the ball tries to step over players on the ground and must not intentionally step
on them A player rucking must do so near the ball.
Penalty: Penalty Kick for dangerous play
TO6.4 OTHER RUCK OFFENCES______________
(a) Players must not return the ball into a ruck.
Penalty: Free Kick
(b) Players must not handle the ball in a ruck.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(c)	Players must not pick up the ball in a ruck with their legs.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(dj Players on the ground in or near the ruck must try to move away from the ball. These
players must not interfere with the ball in the ruck or as it comes out of the ruck.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(e)	A player must not fall on or over a ball as it Is coming out of a ruck.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(f)	A player must not take any action to make the opposing team think that the ball is out of
the ruck while it is still in the ruck.
Penalty: Free Kick
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2009 96
Law 16 Ruck
16.5 OFFSIDE AT THE RUCK
(a)	The offside line. There are two offside lines parallel to the goal lines, one for each team.
Each offside line runs through the hindmost foot of the hindmost player in the ruck. If the
hindmost foot of the hindmost player is on or behind the goal line, the offside line for the
defending team is the goal line.
(b)	Players must either join a ruck, or retire behind the offside line immediately If a player
loiters at the side of a ruck, the player is offside
Penalty: Penalty Kick
At a ruck or maul, the offside line runs through the
hindmost foot of the player of the same team. The player
in the yellow jersey on the right hand side is offside.
97 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
Law 16 Ruck

(c)	Players joining or rejoining the ruck. All players joining a ruck must do so from behind
the foot of the hindmost team-mate in the ruck. A player may join alongside this hindmost
player. If the player joins the ruck from the opponents' side, or m front of the hindmost
team-mate, the player is offside.
Penalty: Penalty Kick on the offending team’s offside line
(d)	Players not joining the ruck. If a player is in front of the offside line and does not join the
ruck, the player must retire behind the offside line at once If a player who is behind the
offside line oversteps it and does not join the ruck the player is offside
Penalty: Penalty Kick on the r ‘ending team's offside line
116.6 SUCCESSFUL	END TO A RUCK	
A ruck ends successfully when the ball leaves the ruck, or when the ball is on or over the
goal line.
116.7 UNSUCCESSFUL END TO A RUCK
(a) A ruck ends unsuccessfully when the ball becomes unplayable and a scrum is ordered.
The team that was moving forward immediately before the ball became unplayable in the
ruck throws in the ball
If neither team was moving forward, or if the referee cannot decide which team was moving
forward before the ball became unplayable in the ruck, the team that was moving forward
before the ruck began throws in the ball.
If neither team was moving forward, then the attacking team throws in the ball.
(b)	Before the referee blows the whistle for a scrum, the referee allows a reasonable amount of
time for the ball to emerge, especially if either team Is moving forward. If the ruck stops
moving, or if the referee decides that the ball will probably not emerge within a reasonable
time, the referee must order a scrum.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2009 98
Law 17 Maul

A maul begins when a player carrying the ball
and one or more of the ball carrier’s team mat
therefore consists, when it begins, of at least 1
ball earner and one player from each team. All
caught in or bound to the maul and must
goal line. Open play has ended.
or more opponents,
ball carrier. A maul
II on their feet; the
'olved must be
noving towards a
iviaui not lormeu
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNIQN 2999 1QQ
Law 17 Maul

17.1	FORMING A MAUL
(a)	Where can a maul take place. A maul can only take place in the field of play.
17.2	JOINING A MAUL
(a)	Players joining a maul must have their heads and shoulders no lower than their hips.
Penalty: Free Kick
Co) A player must be caught in or bound to the maul and not just alongside it
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(c) Placing a hand on another player m the maul does not consbtule binding.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(a)	Keeping players on their feet Players in a maul must endeavour to stay on the»r feet Tte
ball carrier in a maul may go to ground providing the ball is available immediately and p'ay
continues
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(e)	A player must not intentionally collapse a maul This is dangerous play
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(f)	A player must not jump on top of a maul.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
17.3	OTHER MAUL OFFENCES______________
(a) A player must not try to drag an opponent out of a maul
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(b)	A player must not take any action to make the opposing team think that the ball is out of
the maul while it is still in the maul.
Penalty: Free Kick
101 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
Law 17 Maul
17.4	OFFSIDE AT THE MAUL______________
(a) The offside line. There are two offside lines parallel to the goal lines, one lor each team.
Each offside line runs through the hindmost foot ol the hindmost player in the maul II the
hindmost foot of the hindmost player is on or behind the goal line, the offside line for the
defending team is the goal line.
(b)	A player must either join a maul, or retire behind the offside line immediately If a player
loiters at the side of a maul, the player is offside.
Penalty: Penalty Kick on the offending team's offside line
(c)	Players joining the maul. Players joining a maul must do so from behind the foot ol tne
hindmost team-mate in the maul. The player may join alongside this player. If the player
joins the maul from the opponents’ side, or in front of the hindmost team-mate, lhe player is
offside
Penalty: Penalty Kick on the offending team's offside line
(dj Players not joining the maul. All players in front ol the offside line and who do not join the
maul, must retire behind the offside line at once. A player who does not do so. is offside II
any player who is behind the offside line oversteps it and does not join the maul, the player
is offside.
Penalty: Penalty Kick on the offending team's offside line
(e) Players leaving or rejoining the maul. Players who leave a maul must Immediately retire
behind the offside line, otherwise, they are offside. If the player rejoins the maul in front ol
the hindmost team-mate in the maul, they are offside The player may rejoin tne maul
alongside the hindmost team-mate
Penalty: Penalty Kick on the offending team's offside line
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2009 102
Law 17 Maul

(0 When players of the team who are not in possession of the ball in the maul voluntarily lea-?
the maul such that there are no players of that team left in lhe maul, the maul may contn^
and there are two offside lines. The offside line for lhe team in possession runs through lhe
hindmost foot of the hindmost player in the maul and for the team not in possession it s a
line that runs through the foremost foot of the foremost player of the team in possession at
the maul.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(g)	When players of the team who are not in possession of the bait in the maul voluntarily leas
the maul such that there are no players of that team left in the maul, players of that team
may rejoin the maul providing that the first player binds on the foremost player of lhe team
in possession of the ball.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
17.5	SUCCESSFUL END TO A MAUI
A maul ends successfully when the ball or a player with the ball leaves the maul A maJ
ends successfully when lhe ball is on the ground, or is on or over the goal line.
f.6 UNSUCCESSFUL END TO A MAUL
(a)	A maul ends unsuccessfully if it remains stationary or has stopped moving forward for
longer than 5 seconds and a scrum is ordered.
(b)	A maul ends unsuccessfully if the ball becomes unplayable or collapses (not as a result of
foul play) and a scrum is ordered.
INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
Law 17 Maul

(c)	Scrum following maul. The ball is thrown in by the team not in possession when the maul
began. If the referee cannot decide which team had possession, the team moving forward
before the maul stopped throws in the ball If neither team was moving forward, the
attacking team throws in the ball
(d)	When a maul remains stationary or has stopped moving forward for more than 5 seconds,
out the ball is being moved and the referee can see it, a reasonable time is allowed for the
ball to emerge If it does not emerge within a reasonable time, a scrum Is ordered
(e)	When a maul has stopped moving forward it may start moving forward again providing rt
does so within 5 seconds. II the maul stops moving forward a second time and if the ball Is
being moved and the referee can see it, a reasonable time is allowed for the ball to emerge
if it does not emerge within a reasonable time, a scrum is ordered.
(f)	When the ball in a maul becomes unplayable, the referee does not allow prolonged
wrestling for it A scrum is ordered.
(9) If the bail earner in a maul goes to ground, including being on one or both knees or sitting.
the referee orders a scrum unless the ball is immediately available.
(h)	Scrum after a maul when catcher Is held. If a player catches the ball direct from an
opponent's kick, except from a kick-off or a drop-out. and the player is immediately held by
an opponent, a maul may form. Then if the maul remains stationary, stops moving forward
for longer man 5 seconds, or if the ball becomes unplayable, and a scrum is ordered, the
team of the ball catcher throws in the ball.
'Direct from an opponent's kick' means the ball did not touch another player or the ground
before me player caught it
II a maul moves into the player's m-goal, where the ball is touched down or becomes
unplayable, a 5-metre scrum is formed. The attacking team throws in the ball
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2009 1 04
Law 18 Mark
DEFINITION
To make a mark, a player must be on or behind t
player with one foot on the 22-metre line or behl
22'. The player must make a clean catch direct
the same time shout “Mark". A mark cannot be
kick except for a drop-out.
A kick Is awarded for a mark. The place for th
ce of the mark.
I
22-metre line. A
dered to be 'in the
ent’s kick and at
:lck-off, or a restart

A player may make a mark even though the b
before being caught
pal post or crossbar
A player from the defending team may make a rr
Law 18 Mark
18.1	AFTER A MARK_____________ ___________
The referee immediately blows the whistle and awards a kick to the player who made the
mark.
” -aM—
The kick is awarded at the place of the mark.
The kick is taken at or behind the mark on a line through the mark.
______________
__________
The kick is taken by the player who made the mark. If that player cannot lake the kick
within one minute, a scrum is formed at the place of the mark with the ball thrown in by the
player s team If the mark is in the in-goal, the scrum is 5 metres from the goal line, on a
line through the mark.
18.5	HOW THE K1CI
The provisions of Law 21 - Free Kicks - apply to a kick awarded after a mark.
UXWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2009 106
Law 18 Mark

18.6	SCRUM ALTERNATIVE	____________
(a)	The team of the player who made the mark may choose to take a scrum.
(b)	Where the scrum is. If the mark is in the field of play, the scrum is at the place of the
mark, but at least 5 metres from the touchline If the mark is in-goal, the scrum is 5 metres
from the goal line on a line through the mark, and at least 5 metres from the touchline
(c)	Who throws in. The team of the player who made the mark throws the ball in.
18.7	PENALTY KICK AWARDED
(a) An opponent, whether onside or offside, must not charge a player who has made a mark
after the referee has blown the whistle
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(b)	Where the penalty kick is taken. II the infringing player is onside, the penalty kick is taken
at the place of the infringement, if the infringing player is offside, the penalty kick is taken
at the place of the offside line (Law 11 offside and onside in General Play.)
(c)	The penalty kick. Any player from the non-offending team may take the penalty kick.
Law 19 Touch and Lineout
r DEFINITIONS
‘Kicked directly into touch’ means that the ball w
landing on the playing area, and without touchli
kicked Into touch without
layer or the referee.
■ ‘The 22’ is the area between the goal line and th
metre line but excluding the goal line.
The line of touch is an imaginary line in the fietc
touchline through the place where the ball is
The ball is In touch when it Is not being carri
touchline or anything or anyone on or beyond t
The ball is in touch when a player is carrying I
I touches the touchline or the ground beyond th
ball carrier (or the ball) touched or crossed the tc
I touch.
ne, including the 22-
ht angles to the
d it touches the
ier (or the ball)
le place where the
ere it went into
______ has a foot on the
jr has one foot in the field
ill is in touch.
The ball is in touch if a player catches the ball
touchline or the ground beyond the touchline. If a ____
of play and one foot In touch and holds the ball, tWball is
f the ball crosses the touchline or touch-in-goal line, and Is caught by a player
vho has both feet in the playing area, the ball is not in touch or touch-in-goal.
>uch a player may knock the ball into the playing area.
I a player jumps and catches the ball, both feet must land In the playing area
•therwise the ball is in touch or touch-in-goal.
|
i player in touch may kick or knock the ball, but not hold It, provided it has not '
rossed the plane of the touchline. The plane of the touchline is the vertical space j
sing immediately above the touchline.

INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
ILaw 19 Touch and Lineout
[ f'ifeil liilWffii
IIIO GAIN IN GROUND
(a) Outside a team’s 22, a team member kicks directly into touch. Except for a penalty
kick, when a player anywhere in the field of play who is outside the 22 kicks directly into
touch, there is no gain In ground The throw-in is taken either at the place opposite where
the player kicked the ball, or at the place where it went into touch, whichever is nearer that
player's goal line.
lb) When a team causes the ball to be put into their own 22. When a defending player plays
the ball from outside the 22 and it goes into that player's 22 or in-goal area without
touching an opposition player and then that player or another player from that team kicks
the ball directly into touch before it touches an opposition player, or a tackle takes place or a
ruck or maul is formed, there is no gain in ground. This applies when a defending player
moves back behind the 22 metre line to take a quick throw-in and then the ball is kicked
directly into touch.
(c)	If a player with one or both feet inside the 22 metre line, picks up the ball which was
stationary outside the 22 metre line, and kicks it directly into touch, then the player has
taken the ball back inside the 22-metre line, so there is no gain In ground
(d)	Defending team takes ball into their own 22 at a scrum or lineout. When a defending
team throws the ball into a scrum or lineout outside that team's 22 and the bail then
crosses Into the team's 22 without touching an opposition player and then a player from the
defending team kicks the ball directly into touch before it touches an opposition player, or a
tackle takes place or a ruck or maul is formed, there is no gain in ground.
' GAIN IN GROUND
(e)	If a player with one or both feet inside the 22 metre line, picks up the ball which was in
motion outside the 22 metre line, and kicks it directly into touch from within the 22 mete
area, the throw-in is where the ball went Into touch.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2009 110
Law 19 Touch and Lineout
No gain in ground
(0 Player takes ball into their own 22. When a defending player plays the ball from outstfe
the 22 and it goes into that player's 22 or in-goal area and it touches an opposition p'aya.
or a tackle takes place or a ruck or maul is formed and then the ball is kicked by a p'aver tf
that team directly in touch, the throw-in is where the ball went into touch.
(g) Ball put into a player's 22 by the opposition. When the ball is put into a team's 22 by re
opposition, without having touched (or been touched by) a player of the defending team
Delore crossing the 22 and the ball is then kicked into touch by the defending team, tne
throw-in is where the ball went into touch.
1 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
ILaw H9 Touch and Lineout
&
Gain in ground
ln) Kicks indirectly into touch. When a player anywhere in the playing area kicks indirectly
into touch so that the ball bounces in the field of play the throw-in is taken where the ban
went into touch.
When a player anywhere in the playing area kicks the ball so that it touches or is touched
by an opposition player and then goes indirectly into touch so that the ball bounces in the
field of play the throw in is taken where the ball went into touch.
When a player anywhere m the playing area kicks the ball so that it touches or is touched
by an opposition player and then goes directly into touch the throw-in is taken in line with
where the opposition player touched the ball or where the ball crossed the touchline if that
is nearer the opposition player’s goal line.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2009 112
Law 1© Touch and Lineout

Touch & throw-in
INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
ILaw “39 Touch and Lineout
&
FPENALTY KICK
0 Penalty kick. When a player kicks to touch from a penalty kick anywhere in the playing
area, the throw-in is taken where the ball went into touch.
FFREE KICK
(j)	Outside the kicker's 22, no gain in ground. When a free kick awarded outside the 22
goes directly into touch, the throw-in is in line with where the ball was kicked, or where it
went into touch, whichever is nearer the kicker’s goal line
(k)	Inside the kicker's 22 or in-goal, gain in ground. When a free kick is awarded in the 22
or in-goal and the kick goes directly into touch, the throw-in Is where the ball went into
touch
119.2 QUICK THRO1
(a)	A Diayer may take a quick throw-in without waiting for a lineout to form.
(b)	For a quick throw-in. the player may be anywhere outside the field of play between the
place where the ball went into touch and the player’s goal line.
(c)	A player must not take a quick throw-in after the lineout has formed If the player does, the
quick throw-in is disallowed The same team throws in at the lineout
(d)	For a quick throw-in, the player must use the ball that went into touch. If, after it went to
touch and was made dead, another ball is used, or if another person has touched the ball
apart from the player throwing it in, then the quick throw-in is disallowed. The same team
throws m at the lineout.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2009 114
Law 19 Touch and Lineout

(e)	At a quick throw-in, if the player throws the ball in the direction of the opposition's goal Ine a
if the ball does not travel at least five metres to the five metres line along or behind the Ire a
touch before it touches the ground or a player, or if the player steps into the field of pty
the ball Is thrown, then the quick throw-in is disallowed. The opposing team chooses to thrw
in at either a lineout where the quick throw-in was attempted, or a scrum on lhe15-meire fee
at that place. If they too throw in the ball incorrectly at the lineout, a scrum is formed on tre
15-metre line The team that first threw in the ball throws in the ball al the scrum.
(f)	Al a quick throw-in a player may throw the ball in straight along the line of touch or twzts
that player's goal line.
(g)	At a quick throw-in, a player may come to the line of touch and leave without being
penalised.
Quick throw-in
INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD

Haw H9 Touch and Lineout
(h)	At a quick throw-in, a player must not prevent the ball being thrown in 5 metres
Penalty; Free Kick on 15-metre line
Q If a player carrying the ball is forced into touch, that player must release the ball to an
opposition player so that there can be a quick throw-in.
Penalty: Penalty Kick on 15-metre line
1'19.3 OTHER THROW INS
On all other occasions, the throw-in is taken where the ball went into touch.

119.4 WHO THRO	_________________________________
The throw-in is taken by an opponent of the player who last held or touched the ball before
it went into touch. When there is doubt, the attacking team takes the throw-in.
Exception: When a team takes a penalty kick, and the ball is kicked into touch, the throw-in
is taken by a player of the team that took the penalty kick. This applies whether the bal was
kicked directly or indirectly into touch
119.5 PLAYER WITH FOOT IN TOUCH
(a) If a player with one or both feet on or beyond the touch-line (or touch-ln-goal line), picks up
the ball, which was stationary within the playing area, that player has picked up the ball in
the playing area and thereby that player has taken the ball into touch (or touch-ln-goal).
(b)	If a player with one or both feet on or beyond the touch-line (or touch-in-goal line), picks up
the ball, which was in motion within the playing area, that player is deemed to have p ’
up the ball in touch (or touch-ln-goal).
119.6 HOW THE THROW-IN IS TAKEN
The player taking the throw-in must stand at the correct place The player must not step
into the field of play when the ball is thrown. The ball must be thrown straight, so that it
travels at least 5 metres along the line of touch before it first touches the ground or touches
or is touched by a player.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2009 116
aw 19 Touch and Lineout
How the throw-in takes place
9.7	INCORRECT THROW-IN
(a)	If the throw-in at a lineout is incorrect, the opposing team has the choice of throwing in at a
lineout or a scrum on the 15-metre line If they choose the throw-in to the lineout and it is
again incorrect, a scrum is formed. The team that took the first throw-in throws in the bat
(b)	The throw-ln at the lineout must be taken without delay and without pretending to throw
Penalty: Free Kick on the 15-metre line
(c)	A player must not intentionally or repeatedly throw the ball in not straight
Penalty: Penalty Kick on the 15-metre line
INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
LLaw 19 Touch and Lineout
(DEFINITION
i TThe purpose of the line
bhas gone into touch,
LLineout players. Lin
rmake a lineout.
F Receiver. The receiv
F players pass or knock
r receiver but each te
start play, quickly, safely and fairly, after the ball
-In between two lines of players.
are the players who form the two lines that
yer in position to catch the ball when lineout
ck from the lineout. Any player may be the
e only one receiver at a lineout
eout known as participating players. Players
. layer who throws-in and an immediate
ig to receive the ball from the lineout and the
i Players taking part i
t taking part in the lineo
c opponent, the two play
I lineout players.
j All other players. All other
at least 10 metres behind th
i nearer, until the lineout ends.
15-metre line. The 15-metre fine is 15 metres infield and parallel with the
touchline.
Scrum after lineout. Any scrum ordered because of an infringement or
stoppage at the lineout is on the 15-metre line on th
_yers who are not taking part in the lineout must be |
ne of touch, on or behind their goal line if that is
19.8 FORMING A LINEOUT
(a) Minimum. At least two players from each team must form a lineout.
Penalty: Free Kick on the 15-melre line
(b) Maximum. The team throwing in the ball decides the maximum number of players in the
lineout.
Penalty: Free Kick on the 15-metre line
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2009 118

Law 19 Touch and Lineout
$
(c) The opposing team may have fewer lineout players but they must not have more
Penalty: Free Kick on the 15-metre line
(d)	When the ball is in touch, every player who approaches the line of touch is presumed to do
so to form a lineout Players who approach the line of touch must do so without delay.
Players of either team must not leave the lineout once they have taken up a position in me
lineout until the lineout has ended.
Penalty: Free Kick on the 15-metre line
(e)	If the team throwing in the ball put fewer than the usual number of players in the lineout
their opponents must be given a reasonable time to move enough players out of the lineout
to satisfy this Law.
Penalty: Free Kick on the 15-metre line
(f)	These players must leave the lineout without delay They must move to the offside line, 10
metres behind the line of touch If the lineout ends before they reach this line, they may
rejoin play.
Penalty: Free Kick on the 15-metre line
(g)	Failure to form a lineout A team must not voluntarily fail to form a lineout
Penalty: Free Kick on the 15-metre line
(h)	Where the lineout players must stand. The front of the lineout is not less than 5 metres
from the touchline. The back of the lineout is not more than 15 metres from the touchline.
All lineout players must stand between these two points.
Penalty: Free Kick on the 15-metre line
i) Where the receiver must stand. The receiver must stand at least two metres towards that
player's goal line from that player’s team-mates who are lineout players and between five
and fifteen metres from the touchline until the lineout begins.
Penalty: Free Kick on the 15-metre line
) Player between touch and five metres. The team not throwing in must have a player
standing between the touchline and the 5-metre line on that team’s side of the line of touch
when the lineout is formed. That player must stand two metres from the line of touch and
two metres from the five metres line.
Penalty: Free Kick on the 15-metre line
) Participating players in a lineout may change places before the ball is thrown.
4TERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
Law 19 Touch and Lineout
U\WS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2009 1 20
Law 19 Touch and Lineout
0]
(I)	Two single straight lines. The lineout players of both teams form two single paral'el lines
each at right angles to the touchline.
Penalty: Free Kick on the 15-metre line
(m)	Opposing players forming a lineout must keep a clear space between their inside shoLders.
This space is determined when players are in an upright stance.
Penalty: Free Kick on the 15-metre line
(n)	Metre gap. Each line of players must be half a metre on their side of the line of touch
Penalty: Free Kick on the 15-metre line
(o)	The line of touch must not be within 5 metres of the goal line.
(p)	After the lineout has formed, but before the ball has been thrown in, a player must not ho’d.
push, charge into, or obstruct an opponent
Penalty: Penalty Kick on the 15-metre line
19.9 BEGINNING AND ENDING A LINEOUT
(a)	Lineout begins. The lineout begins when the ball leaves the hands of the player throwing it
in.
(b)	Lineout ends. The lineout ends when the ball or a player carrying it leaves the lineout
This includes the following:
When the ball is thrown, knocked or kicked out of the lineout, the lineout ends
When the ball or a player carrying the ball moves into the area between the 5-metre line
and the touchline, the lineout ends.
When a lineout player hands the ball to a player who is peeling off, the lineout ends.
When the ball is thrown beyond the 15-metre line, or when a player takes or puts it bejdnd
that line, the lineout ends.
INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
Law 19 Touch and Lineout
When a ruck or maul develops in a lineout, and all the feet of all the players in the ruck or
maul move beyond the line of touch, the lineout ends.
When the ball becomes unplayable in a lineout, the lineout ends. Play restarts with a scrum
ia) Offside. A lineout player must not be offside The offside line runs through the line of touch
until the ball is thrown m. After the ball has touched a player or the ground, the offside fine
is a line through the ball
Penalty: Penalty Kick on the 15-metre line
(b) Players jumping for the ball may take a step in any direction providing they do not step
across the line of touch
Penalty: Penalty Kick on the 15-metre line
tcj Levering on an opponent. A lineout player must not use an opponent as a support when
jumping.
Penalty: Penalty Kick on the 15-metre line
(tfj Holding or shoving. A lineout player must not hold, push, charge, obstruct or grasp an
opponent not holding the bail except when a ruck or maul is taking place.
Penalty: Penalty Kick on the 15-metre line
(«) Illegal charging. A lineout player must not charge an opponent except in an attempt to
tackle the opponent or to play the ball.
Penalty: Penalty Kick on the 15-metre line
(f)	Lifting and supporting. Players may assist a team-mate in jumping for the ball by lifting
and supporting that player providing that the lifting and/or supporting players do not support
the jumping team-mate below the shorts from behind or below the thighs from the fronL
Penalty: Free Kick on the 15-metre line
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2009 1 22
Law 19 Touch and Lineout
$
(g)	Pre-gripping Is permitted. Players who are going to lift or support a team-mate jumping
for the ball may pre-gnp that team-mate providing they do not pre-grip below the shorts
from behind and below the thighs from the front
Penally: Free Kick on the 15-metre line
(h)	Jumping, supporting or lifting before the ball is thrown. A player must not jump or be
lifted or supported before the ball has left the hands of the player throwing in.
Penalty: Free Kick on the 15-metre line
(i)	Lowering a Player. Players who support a jumping team-mate must lower that player to
the ground as soon as the ball has been won by a player of either team
Penalty: Free Kick on the 15-metre line
(j)	Blocking the throw-in. A lineout player must not stand less than 5 metres from the
touchline A lineout player must not prevent the ball being thrown in 5 metres.
Penalty: Free Kick on the 15-metre line
(k)	When the ball has been thrown beyond a player in the lineout, that player may move to the
space between the touchline and the 5-melre line If the player moves into that space the
player must not move towards that player’s goal line before the lineout ends, except in a
peeling off movement.
Penalty: Free Kick on the 15-metre line
(I)	Catching or deflecting. When jumping for the ball, a player must use either both hands cr
the inside arm to try to catch or deflect the ball The jumper must not use the outside arm
alone to try to catch or deflect the ball. If the jumper has both nands above the head ertna
hand may be used to play the ball.
Penalty: Free Kick on the 15-metre line
3 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
L;aw 19 Touch and Lineout
No holding or
shoving
No levering on an
opponent
No illegal charging
No blocking the
throw
Pre-gripping is
permitted
Lifting of lineout
players is permitted
UXWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
j&cj Law 19 Touch and Lineout
$
19.11 OPTIONS AVAILABLE TO PLAYERS NOT IN THE LINEOUT
In general, a player not taking part in a lineout must stay at least 10 metres behind tne Tine
ol touch, or on or behind that player's goal line if that is nearer, until the lineout ends.
There are two exceptions to this
Exception 1: Long throw-in. If the player who is throwing in throws the ball beyond the 15-
metre line, a player of the same team may run forward to take the ball if that player does
so, an opponent may also run forward
Penalty: Penalty Kick on the offending team’s offsid ■> line, opposite the place of
infringement but not less than 15 metres from the touchline.
Exception 2: The receiver may run into the gap and perform any of the actions availab'e to
any other player in the lineout The receiver is liable to penalty for offences in the lineout as
would be other players in the lineout.
DEFINITIONS
A lineout player ‘peels off’ when leaving the lineout to catch the ball knocked or
passed back by a team-mate.
(a) When: A player must not peel off until the ball has left the hands of the player throwing it n.
Penalty: Free Kick on the 15-metre line, in line with the line of touch.
125 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
I Law 19 Touch and Lineout
lb) A player who peels off, must stay within the area from that players' line of touch to 10
metres from the line of touch, and must keep moving until the lineout has ended.
Penalty: Free Kick on the 1-metre line, in line with the line of touch.
ic) Players may change their positions in the lineout before the ball is thrown in.
119.13	OFFSIDE AT THE LINEOUT
When a lineout forms, there are two separate offside lines, parallel to the goal lines, lor the
teams.
Co) Participating players. One offside line applies to the players taking part in the lineout
(usually some or all of the forwards, plus the scrum half and the player throwing in). Until
the ball is thrown in, and has touched a player or the ground, this offside line is the line of
touch After that, the offside line is a line through the ball.
(c)	Players not taking part. The other offside line applies to the players not taking part in the
lineout (usually the backs). For them, the offside line is 10 metres behind the line of touch or
their goal line, if that is nearer
The lineout offside Law is different in the case of a long throw-in, or in the case ol a nick or
maul in the lineout
1SI9.14 OFFSIDE WHEN TAKING PART IN THE LINEOUT
(a) Before the ball has touched a player or the ground. A player must not orers ep e i
of touch. A player is offside, if, before the ball has touched a player or the groun . a
player oversteps the line of touch, unless doing so while jumping for the ball, e p ay er
must jump from that player's side of the line of touch.
Penalty: Penalty Kick on the 15-metre line
fo) If a player jumps and crosses the line of touch but fails to catch the ball, that player is not
penalised provided that player gels back onside without delay
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2009 126
Law 19 Touch and Lineout
&
(c)	After the ball has touched a player or the ground. A player not carrying the ball is o^sde
if, after lhe ball has touched a player or the ground, that player steps in front of the ba’l,
unless tackling (or trying to tackle) an opponent. Any attempt to tackle must start from that
player's side of the ball.
Penalty: Penalty Kick on the 15 metre line
(d)	The referee must penalise any player who, intentionally or not, moves into an offside
position without trying to win possession or tackle an opponent.
Penalty: Penalty Kick on the 15-metre line
(e)	No player of either team participating in the lineout may leave the lineout until it has ended
Penalty: Penalty Kick on the 15-metre line
19.15 PLAYER THROWING-IN
There are four options available to the player throwing in
(a)	The thrower may stay within 5 metres of the touchline
(b)	The thrower may retire to lhe offside line 10 metres behind the line of touch.
(c)	The thrower may join the lineout as soon as the ball has been thrown in.
(d)	The thrower may move into the receiver position if that position is empty
If the thrower goes anywhere else, the thrower is offside
Penalty: Penalty Kick on lhe 15-metre line
127 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
ILaw 19 Touch and Lineout
&
119.16 OFFSIDE WHEN NOT TAKING PART IN THE LINEOUT_________"
(a)	Before the lineout has ended. The offside line is 10 metres behind the line of touch, or the
player’s goal line, whichever is nearer
A player who is not taking part in the lineout is offside if that player oversteps the offside
line before the lineout has ended.
Penalty: Penalty Kick on the offending team's offside line opposite the p'ace of
infringement, at least 15 metres from the touchline
(b)	Players not yet onside when the ball is thrown in. A player may throw in the ball even if
a team-mate has not yet reached the offside line. However, if this player is not trying to
reach an onside position without delay, this player is offside.
Penalty: Penalty Kick on the offending team's offside line opposite the place of
infringement, at least 15 metres from the touchline
Exception: Long throw-in. There is an exception to the Law of offside at the lineout It
applies if the ball is thrown beyond the 15-metre line. As soon as the ball leaves the hands
of the player throwing in, any players of the thrower s team may run for the ball.
This means that a player taking part in the lineout may run infield beyond the 15-metre line,
and a player not taking part in the lineout may run forward across the offside line.
If this happens, an opponent may also run infield or run forward.
However, if a player runs infield or runs forward to take a long throw-in, and tne ball is not
thrown beyond the 15-metre line, this player is offside and must be penalised.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
For players taking part In the lineout: penalty kick is on the 15-metre line
For players not taking part In the lineout: penalty kick is on the offending team's offside line
at the place of infringement, at least 15 metres from the touchline
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2009 128
Law 19 Touch and Lineout
(g
19.17	OFFSIDE AT RUCKS OR MAULS IN THE LINEOUT
(a)	When a ruck or a maul develops in a lineout the offside line for a player taking part m the
lineout no longer runs through the ball The offside line is now the hindmost foot of that
player's team in the ruck or maul.
(b)	However, for players not taking part in the lineout, the offside line is still 10 metres behnd
the line of touch. For these players, the lineout does not end when a ruck or maul develops
(c)	It ends when the ruck or maul leaves the line of touch. For this to happen, all the feel of al
the players in the ruck or maul must have left the line of touch
(d)	A player taking part in the lineout must either join the ruck or maul, or retire to the offside
line and stay al that line, Otherwise that player is offside.
Penalty: Penalty Kick on the 15-metre line
(e)	The rest of the Lav/ of ruck or maul applies A player must not join the ruck or maul from
the opponents' side.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
Players must not join it in front of the offside line. If they do, they are offside
Penalty: Penalty Kick on the 15-metre line
(f)	Players not taking part in the lineout. When a ruck or maul develops in a lineout, the
lineout has not ended until all the feet of all the players in the ruck or maul have moved
beyond the line of touch.
Until then, the offside line for players not taking part in the lineout is still 10 metres behind
the line of touch, or the goal line if that is nearer A player who oversteps this offs de fine is
offside.
Penalty: Penalty Kick on the offside line at least 15 metres from the touchline
129 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
LLaw 20 Scrum

DEFINITION
TIThe purpose of the sci
irmfringement or a stop|
art play quickly, safely and fairly, after a minor
A* scrum is formed In th
toogether in three rows f
hcieads of the front row
taatf throws In the ball
hmooking the ball with ei
TIThe middle line of a sc
cxannot take place wi
TIThe middle line is an Im
••here the shoulders of t!
TIThe tunnel is the spac
TIThe player of either te
Id.of play when eight players from each team, bound
am, close up with their opponents so that the
eked. This creates a tunnel into which a scrum
jf row players can compete for possession by
eir feet.
ot be within 5 metres of the goal line. A scrum
s of a touchline.
e two front rows.
ws the ball into the scrum is the scrum half.
ne on the ground in the tunnel beneath the line
nt rows meet.
TIThe middle player in each front row is the hooker.
TIThe players on either side of the hooker are the props. The left side props are the
boose head props. The right side props are the tight head props.
TIThe two players in the second row who push on the props and the hooker are the
bocks.
TIThe outside players who bind onto the second or third row are the flankers.
TIThe player in the third row who usually pushes on both locks is the No.8.
AAMematively, the No. 8 may push on a lock and a flanker.
(i

LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2009 1 30
Law 20 Scrum
20.1	FORMING A SCRUM
(a)	Where the scrum takes place The place tor a scrum is where the infringement or stoppage
happened, or as near to it as is practicable m the field of play, unless otherwise stated in
Law.
(b)	If this is less than 5 metres from a touchline, the place for the scrum is 5 metres from that
touchline. A scrum can take place only in the field of play The middle line of a scrum must
not be within 5 metres of the goal line when it is formed.
(c)	If there is an infringement or stoppage in in-goal, the place for the scrum is 5 metres from
the goal line.
(d)	The scrum is formed in line with the place of the infringement or stoppage
(e)	No delay. A team must not intentionally delay forming a scrum
Penalty: Free Kick
(0 Number of players: eight A scrum must have eight players from each team. All eight
players must stay bound to the scrum until it ends. Each front row must have three players
in it. no more and no less. Two locks must form the second row
Penalty: Penalty Kick
Exception: When a team is reduced to fewer than fifteen for any reason, tnen the number ct
players of each team in the scrum may be similarly reduced Where a permitted reduction b
made by one team, there is no requirement for the other team to make a similar reduction.
However, a team must not have fewer than five players in the scrum
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(g)	Front rows coming together. First, the referee marks with a foot the place where the
scrum is to be formed Before the two front rows come together they must be standing not
more than an arm's length apart. The ball is in the scrum half’s hands, ready to be thrown
in. The front rows must crouch so that when they meet, each player’s head and shoulders
are no lower than the hips. The front rows must interlock so that no player’s head is next to
the head of a team-mate.
Penalty: Free Kick
131 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
Law 20 Scrum
01
(h)	The referee will call "crouch" then “touch". The front rows crouch and using their outside
arm each prop touches the point of the opposing prop’s outside shoulder. The props then
withdraw their arms. The referee will then call "pause" Following a pause the referee will
then call "engage" The front rows may then engage The "engage" call is not a command
but an indication that the front rows may come together when ready.
Penalty: Free Kick
v) A crouched position is the extension of the normal stance by bending the knees sufficiently
to move into the engagement without a charge
O Charging. A front row must not form at a distance from its opponents and rush against
them This is dangerous play.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
M Stationary and parallel. Until the ball leaves the scrum half's hands, the scrum must be
stationary and the middle line must be parallel to the goal lines. A team must not shove the
scrum away from the mark before the ball is thrown in.
Penalty: Free Kick
'.1 All players in a position to shove. When a scrum has formed, tne body and feet of each
front row player must be in a normal position to make a forward shove.
Penalty: Free Kick
M This means that the front row players must have both feet on the ground, with their weight
firmly on at least one foot. Players must not cross their feet, although the foot of one player
may cross a team-mate's foot. Each player's shoulders must be no lower than the hips.
Penalty: Free Kick
W Hooker in a position to hook. Until the ball is thrown in, the hooker must be in a posiLon
to hook the ball. The hookers must have both feet on lhe ground, with their weight firmly on
at least one foot. A hooker’s foremost foot must not be m front of the foremost foot of that
team's props
Penalty: Free Kick
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2009 132
Law 20 Scrum
20.3 BINDING IN THE SCRUM	________________________

DEFINITION
When a player binds on a team-mate that playe
hand to shoulder to grasp the team-mate’s b
armpit. Placing only a hand on another player Is

e whole arm from
w the level of the
pry binding.
(a) Binding by all front row players. All front row players must bind firmly and continuous?/
from the start to the finish of the scrum
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(b) Binding by hookers. The hooker may bind either over or under the arms of the props. The
props must not support the hooker so that the hooker has no weight on either foot.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(c)	Binding by loose head props. A loose head prop must bind on the opposing tight head
prop by placing the left arm inside the right arm of the tight head and gripping the light
head prop’s jersey on the back or side. The loose head prop must not grip the chest, arm.
sleeve or collar of the opposition tight head prop. The loose head prop must not exert any
downward pressure.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(d)	Binding by tight head props. A tight head prop must bind on the opposing loose head prop
by placing the right arm outside the left upper arm of the opposing loose head prop. The
tight head prop must grip the loose head prop’s jersey with the right hand only on the bac*
or side The tight head prop must not grip the chest, arm, sleeve or collar of the opposition
loose head prop The tight head prop must not exert any downward pressure.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(e)	Both the loose head and tight head props may alter their bind providing they do so in
accordance with this Law
133 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
Law 20 Scrum
Middle line
Binding by props
(0 Binding by all other players. All players in a scrum, other than front-row players, must
bind on a lock’s oody with at least one arm prior to the scrum engagement. The locks must
bind with the props in front of them No other player other than a prop may ho’d an
opponent
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(fl) Flanker obstructing opposing scrum half. A flanker may bind onto the scrum at any
angle, provided the flanker is properly bound. The flanker must not widen that angle and so
obstruct the opposing scrum half moving forward.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(h) Scrum collapse. If a scrum collapses, the referee must blow the whistle immediately so
that players stop pushing
0 Player forced upwards. If a player in a scrum is lifted in the air, or is forced upwards out of
tne scrum, the referee must blow the whistle immediately so that players stop pushing.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2009 134
Law 20 Scrum

20.4	THE TEAM THROWING THE BALL INTO THE SCRUM__________J
(a)	After an infringement, the team that did not cause the infringement throws in the ball.
(b)	Scrum after ruck. Refer to Law 16.7.
(c)	Scrum after maul. Refer to Law 17.6
(d)	Scrum after any other stoppage. After any other stoppage or irregularity not covered b/
Law. the team that was moving forward before the stoppage throws in the ball If neither
team was moving forward, the attacking team throws in the ball.
(e)	When a scrum remains stationary and the ball does not emerge immediately a further
scrum is ordered at the place of the stoppage The ball is thrown in by the team not in
possession at the time of the stoppage.
(f)	When a scrum becomes stationary and does not start moving immediately, the ball must
emerge immediately If it does not a further scrum will be ordered The ball is thrown in bj
the team not in possession at the time of the stoppage
(g)	If a scrum collapses or lifts up into the air without penalty a further scrum will be ordered
and the team who originally threw in the ball will throw the ball in again
If a scrum has to be reformed for any other reason not covered in this Law the team who
originally threw in the ball will throw the ball in again
20.5	THROWING THE BALL INTO THE SCRUM
(a)	No Delay. As soon as the front rows have come together, the scrum half must throw in the
ball without delay. The scrum half must throw in the ball when told to do so by the referee
The scrum half must throw in the ball from the side of the scrum first chosen
Penalty: Free Kick
135 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
a.aw 20 Scrum
220.6 HOW THE SCRUM HALF THROWS IN THE BALL
(a)	The scrum hall must stand one metre from the mark on the middle line so that player's
head does not touch the scrum or go beyond the nearest front row player.
Penalty: Free Kick
(b)	The scrum half must hold the ball with both hands, with its major axis parallel to the ground
and to the touchline over the middle line between the front rows, mid-way between knee
and ankle
Penalty: Free K*ck
Throw in at the scrum
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2009
136
Law 20 Scrum
(c)	The scrum half must throw in the ball at a quick speed The ball must be released from the
scrum half’s hands from outside the tunnel.
Penalty: Free Kick
(d)	The scrum half must throw in the ball straight along the middle line, so that it first touches
the ground immediately beyono the width of the nearer prop’s shoulders.
Penalty: Free Kick
(e)	The scrum half must throw in the ball with a single forward movement. This means that
there must be no backward movement with the ball. The scrum half must not pretend to
throw the ball.
Penalty: Free Kick
20.7	WHEN THE SCRUM BEGINS	_______
(a)	Play in the scrum begins when the ball leaves the hands of the scrum half
(b)	If the scrum half throws in the ball and it comes out at either end of the tunnel, the ball
must be thrown in again unless a free kick or penalty has been awarded
(c)	If the ball is not played by a front row player, and it goes straight through the tunnel and
comes out behind the foot of a far prop without being touched, the scrum hall must throw it
in again
(d)	If the ball is played by a front row player and comes out of the tunnel, advantage may apo'y
137 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
(Law 20 Scrum
&
PLAYERS
•a) Striking before the throw-in ('foot up’). All front row players must place their feet to leave
a clear tunnel Until the ball has left the scrum half's hands, they must not raise or advance
a foot. They must not do anything to stop the ball being thrown in to the scrum correctly or
toucning the ground at the correct place.
Penalty: Free Kick
(b)	Striking after the throw-in. Once the ball touches the ground in the tunnel, any front row
player may use either foot to try to win possession of the ball.
(c)	Kicking-out. A front row player must not intentionally kick the ball out of the tunnel in the
direction from which it was thrown in
Penalty: Free Kick
•.d) If the ball is kicked out unintentionally, the same team must throw it in again
(e)	If the ball is repeatedly kicked out, the referee must treat this as intentional and penalise the
offender.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(0 Swinging. A front row player must not strike for the ball with both feet. No player may
intentionally raise both feet from the ground, either when the ball is being thrown in or
afterwards
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(g) Twisting, dipping or collapsing. Front row players must not twist or lower their bodies, or
pull opponents, or do anything that is likely to collapse the scrum, either when the ball is
being thrown in or afterwards
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(h)	Referees must penalise strictly any intentional collapsing of the scrum. This is dangerous play
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(i)	Lifting or forcing an opponent up. A front row player must not lift an opponent in the air,
or force an opponent upwards out of the scrum, either when the ball is being thrown in or
afterwards This is dangerous play.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2009 138
Law 20 Scrum

20.9	SCRUM - GENERAL RESTRICTIONS	__________
(a)	All players: Collapsing. A player must not intentionally collapse a scrum A player must not
intentionally fall or kneel in a scrum This is dangerous play
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(b)	All players: Handling in the scrum. Players must not handle the ball in the scrum or pick il
up with their legs
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(c)	All players: Other restrictions on winning the ball. Players must not try to win tne ball in
the scrum by using any part of their body except their foot or lower leg.
Penalty: Free Kick
(d)	All players: When the ball comes out, leave it out When the ball has left the scrum, a
player must not bring it back in to the scrum.
Penalty: Free Kick
(e)	All players: No falling on the ball. A player must not fall on or over the ball as it is com ng
out of the scrum
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(f)	Locks and flankers: Staying out of the tunnel. A player who is not a front row player
must not play the ball in the tunnel
Penalty: Free Kick
(g)	Scrum half: Kicking in the scrum. A scrum half must not kick the ball while it is in the
scrum.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(h)	Scrum half: Dummying. A scrum half must not take any action to make the opponents
think that the ball is out of the scrum while it is still in the scrum
Penalty: Free Kick
139 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
LLaw 20 Scrum
0 Scrum half: Holding opposing flanker. A scrum half must not grasp an opposing flanker in
order lo gain leverage, or for any other reason.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(a)	The ball comes out. When the ball comes out of the scrum in any direction except the
tunnel, the scrum ends.
(b)	Scrum in the in-goal. A scrum cannot take place In the in-goal. When the ball in a scrum is
on or over the goal line, the scrum ends and an attacker or a defender may legally ground
the ball for a try or a touch down
(c)	Hindmost player unbinds. The hindmost player in a scrum is the player whose feet are
nearest the team's own goal line. If the hindmost player unbinds from the scrum with the
ball at that player's feet and picks up the ball, the scrum ends
220.11	SCRUM WHEELED
(a)	If a scrum is wheeled through more than 90 degrees, so that the middle line has passed
beyond a position parallel to the touchline, the referee must stop play and order another
scrum.
Co) This new scrum is formed at the place where the previous scrum ended. The ball is thrown
in by the team not in possession at the time of the stoppage. If neither team win
possession, it is thrown in by the team that previously threw it In.
220.12	OFFSIDE AT THE SCRUM
(a)	When the scrum is set. the scrum half not throwing the ball into the scrum must lake up a
position either at the same side of the scrum as the scrum half throwing in the ball or
behind the offside line defined for other players.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2009 140
Law 20 Scrum
(b)
Offside for scrum-halves. When a team has won the ball in a scrum, the scrum half of that
team is offside if both feet are in front of the ball while it is still in the scrum If the scrum
half has only one foot in front of the ball, the scrum half is not offside.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
• Offside line fur blue scrum half
• Offside line for blue scrum half
Offside line for yellow scrum half
when not playing ball
Offside line for yellow players
who are not in the scrum
Scrum offside
141 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
L.aw 20 Scrum
(c)	When a team has won the ball in a scrum, the scrum half of the opposing team is offside if
that scrum half steps in front of the ball with either foot while the ball Is still in the scrum.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
Id) The scrum half whose team does not win possession of the ball must not move to the
opposite side of the scrum and overstep the offside line For that scrum half that runs
through the hindmost foot of that player’s team in the scrum.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(e) The scrum half whose team does not win possession of the ball must not move away from
the scrum and then remain in front of the offside line. For that scrum half that runs through
the hindmost foot of that player’s team in the scrum.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(0 Any player may be scrum hall, but a team can have only one scrum half at each scrum.
Penalty: Penalty Kick on the offside line
ig) Offside for players not in the scrum. Players who are not in the scrum and who are not
the team's scrum half, are offside if they remain in front of their offside line or overstep the
offside line which is a line parallel to the goal lines and 5 metres behind the hindmost player
of each team in a scrum
Penalty: Penalty Kick on the offside line
(h)	If the hindmost foot of a team Is on or behind that team's goal line, the offside line for
scrum halves and non-participants is the goal line.
(i)	Loitering. When a scrum is forming, players not taking part in it must retire to their offs de
line without delay. If they do not. they are loitering. Loiterers must be penalise
Penalty: Penalty Kick on the offside line
<20.13 UNDER 19 VARIATIONS IN ADULT MATCHES
A Union may Implement the Under 19 Scrum Law Vanalions at defined levels of the Game within
its jurisdiction.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2009
142
Law 21 Penalty and Free Kicks
&
DEFINITION
Penalty kicks and free kicks are awarded to the non-offending team for
infringements by their opponents.
21.1	WHERE PENALTY AND FREE KICKS ARE AWARDED _____
Unless a Law states otherwise, the mark for a penalty or free kick is at the place of
infringement.
21.2	WHERE PENALTY AND FREE KICKS ARE
(a)	The kicker must take the penalty or free kick at the mark or anywhere behind it on a fine
through the mark If the place for a penalty or free kick is within 5 metres of the opponents’
goal line, the mark for the kick is 5 metres from the goal line, opposite the place of
infnngement.
fo) When a penalty or free kick is awarded for an infringement in in-goal. the mark for the kick
is in the field of play, 5 metres from the goal line, in line with the place of infnngement
Penalty: Any infringement by the kicker's team results in a scrum at the mark. The
opposing team throws in the ball.
21.3	HOW THE PENALTY AND FREE KICKS ARE TAKEN
(a) Any player may take a penalty or free kick awarded for an infringement with any type of
kick: punt, drop kick or place kick. The ball may be kicked with any pan of the lower leg
from knee to the foot, excluding the knee and the heel.
(b)	Bouncing the ball on the knee is not taking a kick.
Penalty: Any infringement by the kicker’s team results in a scrum at the mark. The
opposing team throws in the ball
143 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
I Law Penalty and Free Kicks
g
(c)	The kicker must use the hall that was in play unless the referee decides it was defective.
Penalty: Any infringement by the kicker's team results in a scrum at the mark The
opposing team throws in the ball

£ KICK OPTIONS AND REQUIREMENTS
(a) Scrum alternative. A team awarded a penalty or free kick may choose a scrum instead.
They throw in the ball
(b)	No delay. II a kicker indicates to the referee the intention to kick a penalty kick at goal, the
kick must be taken within one minute from the time the player ind.cales the intention to
kick at goal. The intention to kick is signalled by the arrival of the kicking tee or sand, or
when the player makes a mark on the ground The player must complete the kick within on
minute even if the ball rolls over and has to be placed again. If the one minute is exceeded.
the kick is disallowed, a scrum is ordered at the place of the mark and the opponents tnrov
in the ball. For any other type of kick, the kick must be taken without undue delay.
(c)	A clear kick. The kicker must kick the ball a visible distance If the kicker is holding it, it
must clearly leave the hands If it is on the ground, it must clearly leave the mark.
(d)	Place kicking for touch. The kicker may punt or drop kick for touch but must not place
kick for touch.
(e)	Kicker's freedom of action. The kicker is free to kick the ball in any direction and may
play the ball again
(0 Kick taken in the in-goal. When a penalty or free kick is taken in the team's in-goal and a
defending player by foul play prevents an opponent from scoring a try, a penalty try is
awarded.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2009 1 44
Law 21 Penalty and Free Kicks

(g) Out of play in the in-goal. If a penalty or free kick is taken in in-goal and the ball goes into
touch-in goal, or on or over the dead ball line, or a defending player makes the ball dead
before it has crossed the goal line, a 5-metre scrum is awarded The attacking team throws
in the ball.
(h) Behind the ball. All the kicker's team at a penalty or free kick must be behind the ball unfl
it has been kicked, except the placer for a place kick
(i)	Kick taken quickly. If the penalty or free kick is taken so quickly that players of the
kicker's team are still in front of the ball, they are not penalised for being offside However
they must retire immediately They must not stop retiring until they are onside They must
not take part m the game until they are onside. This applies to all players of that team,
whether they are inside or outside the playing area.
(j)	In this situation, players become onside when they run behind the team-mate who took the
penalty or free kick, or when a team-mate carrying the ball runs in front of them, or when a
team-mate who was behind the ball when it was kicked runs in front of them.
(k)	An offside player cannot be put onside by any action of an opponent.
Penalty: Unless otherwise stated in Law any infringement by the kicker s team results in a
scrum at the mark The opposing team throw in the ball.
21.5	SCORING A GOAL FROM A PENALTY
(a) A penalty goal can be scored from a penalty kick
(b)	If the kicker Indicates to the referee the intenbon to kick at goal, the kicker must kick at
goal. Once the kicker has made the intention clear, there can be no change of the intenton.
The referee may enquire of the kicker as to the intention
(c)	If the kicker indicates to the referee the intent to kick at goal, the opposing team must stand
still with their hands by their sides from the time the kicker starts to approach to kick until
the ball is kicked
145 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
I Law 211 Penalty and Free Kicks

(d)	If the kicker has not indicated an intention to kick at goal but takes a drop kick and scores a
goal, the goal stands.
(e)	If the opposing team infringes while the kick is being taken but the kick at goal is
successful, the goal stands. A further penalty is not awarded for the infringement
(f)	The kicker may place the Dall directly on the ground or on sand, sawdust or a kicking tee
approved by the Union.
Penalty kick at goal
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2009
146
Law 21 Penalty and Free Kicks

21.6	SCORING FROM A FREE KICK
(a) A goal cannot be scored from a free kick.
(b)	The team awarded a free kick cannot score a dropped goal until after the ball next becomes
dead, or until after an opponent has played or touched it. or has tackled the ball carrier. Ths
restriction applies also to a scrum taken instead of a free kick.
21.7	WHAT THE OPPOSING TEAM MUST DO AT A PENALTY KICK
(a) Must run from the mark. The opposing team must immediately run towards their own goal
line until they are at least 10 metres away from the mark for the penalty kick, or until they
have reached their goal line if that is nearer the mark.
(b) Must keep running. Even if the penalty kick is taken and the kicker s team is playing the
ball, opposing players must keep running until they have retired the necessary distance.
They must not lake part in the game until they have done so.
(c)	Kick taken quickly. If the penalty kick is taken so quickly that opponents have no
opportunity to retire, they will not be penalised for this However, they must continue to
retire as described in 21 7(b) above or until a team-mate who was 10 metres from the mark
has run in front of them, before they take part in the game.
(d)	Interference. The opposing team must not do anything to delay the penalty kick or obstruct
the kicker They must not intentionally take, throw or kick the ball out of reach of the kicker
or the kicker's team mates.
Penalty: Any infringement by the opposing team results in a second penalty kick. 10 metres
in front of the mark for the first kick. This mark must not be within 5 metres of the goal I ne.
Any player may take the kick. The kicker may change the type of kick and may choose to
kick at goal If the referee awards a second penalty kick, the second penalty kick is not
taken before the referee has made the mark indicating the place of the penalty
147 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
LLaw 21 Penalty and Free Kicks
&
221.8 WHAT OPTIONS THE OPPOSING TEAM HAVE AT A FREE KICK
ia) Must run from the mark. The opposing team must immediately run towards their own goaf
line until they are at least 10 metres away from the mark for tne free feck, or unbl they have
reached their goal line if that is nearer the mark. If the free feck is in a defending teams in-
goal area, the opposing team must immediately run towards their own goal Ine until they
are at least 10 metres away from the mark and not nearer than 5 metres from the goal line
(b) Must keep running. Even if the free kick is taken and the kicker’s team is playing the ball,
opposing players must keep running unbl they have rebred the necessary distance They
must not take part in the game until they have done so.
(c)	Kick taken quickly. If the free kick is taken so quickly that opponents have no opportunity
to retire, they will not be penalised for this. However, they must conbnue to retire as
described in 21.8(b) above or unbl a team-mate who was 10 metres from the mark has rur
in front of them, before tney take part in the game
(d)	Interference. The opposing team must not do anything to delay the free kick or obstruct the
kicker. They must not intentionally take, throw or kick the ball out of reach of the fecker or
the kicker's team mates
(e)	Charging the free kick. Once they have rebred the necessary distance, players of the
opposing team may charge and try to prevent the kick being taken They may charge the
free kick as soon as the kicker starts to approach to feck.
if) Preventing the free kick. If the opposing team charge and prevent the free kick being
taken, the kick is disallowed Play restarts with a scrum al the mark. The opposing team
throw in the ball
U\WS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2009 148
Law 21 Penalty and Free Kicks

(g)	Free kick taken in the in-goal. If a free kick has been awarded in the in-goal or if it has
been awarded in the field of play and the player retires to in-goal to take it, and the
opponents charge and prevent the kick from being taken, a 5-metre scrum is ordered The
attacking team throw in the ball. If a free kick is taken in the in-goal, an opponent who
legitimately plays it there can score a try
(h)
Charged down, if opponents charge down a free kick in the playing area, play continues.
Penalty: Any infringement by the opposing team resuits in a second free kick, awarded 10
metres in front of the mark for the first kick. This mark must not be within 5 metres of me
goal line Any player may take the kick. If the referee awards a second free kick, the second
free kick is not taken before the referee has made the mark indicating the place of the free
kick.
1.9	CONTRIVED INFRINGEMENTS AT THE PENALTY KICK
II the referee believes that the kicker’s team has contrived an infringement by their
opponents, the referee does not award a further penalty but allows play to continue.
>1.10 CONTRIVED INFRINGEMENTS AT THE FREE KICK
(a)	The kicker must not pretend to kick. As soon as the kicker makes a move to kick, the
opponents may charge.
(b) If the referee believes that the kicker's team has contrived an infringement by their
opponents, the releree does not award a further free kick but allows play to continue.

14Q INTERNATIONA! Rl IHRY ROARO
Law 22 In-Goal
B
When attacking players are first to ground the
attacking players score a try.
When defending players are first to ground the
players make a touch down.
DEFINITIONS
In-goal is part of the ground as defined in Law 1 where the ball may be grounded
by players from either team.
Grounding the ball
A defending player who has one foot on the go
receives the bail is considered to have both fee
22.1 GROUNDING THE BALL

ments* in-goal, the
, the defending
e in-goal who
INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
ILaw 22 In-Goal

There are two ways a player can ground the ball:
(a)	Player touches the ground with the ball. A player grounds the ball by holding the ball and
touching the ground with it, in in-goal. ’Holding' means holding in the hand or hands, or In
the arm or arms. No downward pressure is required.
tb) Player presses down on the ball. A player grounds the ball when it is on the ground in the
m-goal and the player presses down on it with a hand or hands, arm or arms, or the front of
the player's body from waist to neck inclusive.
Try. When an attacking player who is onside is first to ground the ba.1 in the opponents’ in-
goal, the player scores a try. This applies whether an attacking or a defending player is
responsible for the bail being in the m-goal.
, 222.4 OTHER WAYS TO SCORE A TRY
(a)	Grounded on the goal line. The goal line Is part of the in-goal. If an attacking player is first
Io ground the ball on the opponents' goal line, a try is scored.
(b)	Grounded against a goal post The goal posts and padding surrounding them are part of
the goal line, which is part of in-goal. If an attacking player is first to ground the ball against
a goal post or padding, a try is scored.
i*yo z~«c n_ic rjAiic di iz^ov i iKiinxi onna
Law 22 In-Goal
Scoring a try - grounded against the goal post
c) Pushover try. A scrum or ruck
cannot take place in the in-goal.
If a scrum or ruck is pushed into
the m-goal, an attacking player
may legally ground the ball as
soon as the ball reaches or
crosses the goal line and a try is
scored.
153 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
LLaw 22 In-Goal

(tf) Momentum try. If an attacking player with the ball is tackled short of the goal line but the
player’s momentum carries the player in a continuous movement along the ground into the
opponents in-goal, and the player is first to ground the ball, a try is scored
(e) Tackled near the goal line. If a player is tackled near to the opponents' goal line so that
this player can immediately reach out and ground the ball on or over the goal line, a try is
scored
lO In this situation, defending players who are on their feet may legally prevent the try by
pulling the Dall from the tackled player's hands or arms, but must not kick the ball.
(g)	Player in touch or touch-in-goal. If an attacking player is in touch or in touch-in-goal, the
player can score a try by grounding the ball in the opponents' in-goal provided the player is
not carrying the ball.
Player in touch-in-goal, not carrying the ball but
grounding the ball and scoring a try
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2009 154
Law 22 In-Goal
(h)	Penalty try. A penalty try is awarded if a try would probably have been scored but for foul
play by the defending learn A penalty try is awarded if a try would probably have been
scored in a better position but for foul play by the defending team
(i)	A penalty try is awarded between the goal posts The defending team may charge the
conversion kick after a penalty try.
22.5	BALL GROUNDED BY A DEFENDING PLAYER
(a)	Touch down. When defending players are first to ground the ball in their in-goal, it results m
a touch down.
(b)	Player in touch or touch-in-goal. If defending players are in touch-in-goal, they can make
a touch down by grounding the ball in their in-goal provided they are not carrying the ball
(c)	Grounded against a goal post. The goal posts and padding surrounding them are part of
the goal line If a defending player is first to ground the ball against a goal post or padding.
the result is a touch down.
22.6	SCRUM OR RUCK IS PUSHED INTO IN-GOAL
A scrum or ruck can take place only in the field of play. Therefore, if a scrum or ruck is
pushed across the goal line, a defending player may legally ground the ball as soon as the
bail reaches or crosses the goal line This results in a touch down.
22.7	RESTARTING AFTER A TOUCH DOWN
(a) When an attacking player sends or carries the ball into the opponents’ m-goal and it
becomes dead there, either because a defender grounded it or because it went into touch-
in goal or on or over the dead ball line, a drop-out is awarded.
(b)	If an attacking player knocks-on or throws-forward In the field of play and the ball goes Into
the opponents’ in-goal and it is made dead there, a scrum is awarded where the knock-on
or throw forward happened.
155 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
Law 22 In-Goal
fc) If at a kick-off the ball Is kicked into the opponents’ in-goal without having touched or been
touched by a player and a defending player grounds it there or makes it dead without delay,
the defending team have two choices.
To have a scrum formed at the centre, and they throw in the ball; or
To have the other team kick off again
id) If a defending player threw or took the ball into the m-goal, and a defending player
grounded it, and there has been no infringement, play is restarted by a 5-metre scrum The
position of the scrum is in line with where the ball has been touched down. The attacking
side throws in the ball.
If a team kicks the ball through their opponents’ in-goal, into touch-in-goal or on or over
dead ball line, except by an unsuccessful kick at goal or attempted dropped goal, the
defending team has two choices:
To have a drop out,
or
To have a scrum at the place where the ball v/as kicked and they throw in.
222.9	DEFENDING PLAYER IN IN-GOAL
(a) A defending player who has part of one fool in m-goal is considered to have both feet In in-
goal
Co) If a player with one or both feet on or behind the goal line, picks up the ball, which was
stationary within the field of play, that player has picked up the ball in the field of play and
thereby that player has taken the ball into in-goal.
(c)	If a player with one or both feet on or behind the goal line picks up the ball, which was In
motion within the field of play, that player has picked up the ball within in-goal.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2009 156
Law 22 In-Goal

(d)	If a player with one or both feet on or behind the dead ball line, picks up the ball, which was
stationary within in -goal, that player deemed has picked up the ball in in-goal and thereby
that player has made the ball dead
(e)	If a player with one or both feet on or behind the dead ball line picks up the ball, which was
in motion within in-goal, that player has picked up the ball outside the playing area.
____________	__________________
22.10	BALL HELD UP IN-GOAL	____________	____________
When a player carrying the ball is held up in the in-goal so that the player cannot ground
the ball, the ball is dead A 5-metre scrum is formed This would apply if play similar to a
maul takes place in in-goal. The attacking team throws in the ball
_____________	___________
.11 BALL DEAD IN IN-GOAL	_____________	______________
i) When the ball touches the touch-m-goal line or the dead ball line, or touches anything or
anyone beyond those lines, the ball becomes dead. If the ball was played into in-goal by the
attacking team, a drop-out shall be awarded to the defending team If the ball was played
into in-goal by the defending team, a 5-metre scrum shall be awarded and the attacking
team throws in the ball.
(b)	When a player carrying the ball touches the touch-in-goal line, the dead ball line, or touches
the ground beyond those lines, the ball becomes dead If the ball was carried into m-goal by
the attacking team, a drop-out snail be awarded to the defending team. If the ball was
carried into in-goal by the defending team, a 5-metre scrum shall be awarded and the
attacking team throws in the ball.
(c)	When a player scores a try or makes a touch down, the ball becomes dead
22.12	BALL OR PLAYER TOUCHING A FLAG OR FLAG (CORNER) POST
If the ball or a player carrying the ball touches a flag or a flag (comer) post at the
intersection of the touch-in-goal lines and the goal lines or at the intersection of the touch-
in-goal lines and the dead ball lines without otherwise being in touch or touch-ln-goal the
ball is not out of play unless it is first grounded against a flag post.
157 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
I Law 22 In-Goal

If an attacking player commits an infringement in in-goal, for which the penalty is a scrum.
for example, a knock-on, play is restarted with a 5-melre scrum. The scrum is formed in
line with the place of the infringement and the defending team throws in the ball.
: 22.14 DEFENDING INFRINGEMENT WITH SCRUM PENALTY
If a defending player infringes in in-goal, for which the penalty is a scrum, for example, a
knock-on, play is restarted with a 5-metre scrum. The scrum is formed in line with the place
of the infringement and the attacking team throws in the ball
<22.15 DOUBT ABOUT GROUNDING
If there is doubt about which team first grounded the ball in the in-goal, play is re-started by
a 5-metre scrum, in line with the place where the oall was grounded. The attacking team
throws in the ball.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2009 158
22.16 INFRINGEMENTS IN IN-GOAL________________________________________________________
All infringements in the in-goal are treated as if they had taken place in the field of play.
A knock-on or a throw forward m the m-goal results in a 5 metre scrum, opposite the place
of infringement
Penalty: For an infringement, the mark for a penalty kick or free kick cannot be In the in-
goal. When a penalty kick or free kick is awarded for an infringement in the In-goal, the
mark for the kick is in the field of play, 5 metres from the goal line, opposite the place of
infringement.
22.17	MISCONDUCT OR UNFAIR PLAY IN IN-GOAL
(a) Obstruction by the attacking team. When a player charges or intentionally obstructs an
opponent in the in-goal who has just kicked the ball, the opponent’s team may choose to
take the penalty kick either m the field of play. 5 metres from the goal line opposite the
place of infringement, or where the ball landed
If they make the second choice and the ball lands in or near touch, tne mark for the penalty
kick is 15 metres from the touchline, opposite where the ball went into touch or where it
landed.
A try is disallowed and a penalty kick awarded if a try would probably not have been scored
but for foul play by the attacking team.
(b) Foul play by the defending team. The referee awards a penalty try if a try would probably
have been scored but for foul play by the defending team.
The referee awards a penalty try if a try would probably have been scored in a better
position but for foul play by the defending team
A penalty try is awarded between the goal posts The defending team may charge the
conversion kick after a penalty try
A player who prevents a try being scored through foul play must either be cautioned and
temporarily suspended or sent off.
(c)	Any other foul play. When a player commits any other foul play in the in-goai while the ball
is out of play, the penalty kick is awarded at the place where the game would otherwise
have re-started
Penalty: Penalty Kick.