A\
Acctual time: Elapsed time including lime lost for any reason
Acdvantage: Law 8 - Advantage
Assistant referee: Lav; 6 - Match Officials
Atttacking team: The opponents of the defending team in whose half of the ground
pl lay is taking place
B3
Bi all carrier: A player carrying the ball.
B»eyond or behind or in front of a position: Means with both feet, except where the
coontext makes that inappropriate
Bunding: Grasping firmly another player's body between the shoulders and the hips with
tbne whole arm m contact from hand to shoulder.
Captain: The captain is a player nominated by the team. Only the captain is entitled to
coonsuit the referee during the match and is solely responsible for choosing options
relating to the referee's decisions.
Cavalry charge: Law 10 • Foul Play
Conversion kick: Law 9 ■ Method of Scoring.
Converted: A conversion kick that was successful
D
DOangerous play: Law 10 Foul Play.
DOead: The ball is out of play This happens when the ball has gone outside the playing
anrea and remained there, or when the referee has blown the whistle to indicate a
stoppage in play, or when a conversion kick has been taken.
[Dead ball line: Law 1 The Ground
[Defending team: The team in whose half of the ground play is taking place, their
oopponents are the attacking team.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
2016
Drop kick: The ball is dropped from the hand or hands to the ground and kicked as it
rises from its first bounce.
Drop out: Law 13 • Kick Off and Restart Kicks.
Dropped goal: Law 9 - Method of Scoring
F
Field of play. Law 1 - The Ground.
Flanker: Forward player who usually wears iersey No.6 or No 7
Flying wedge: Law 10 • Foul Play
Foul play Law 10 - Foul Play.
Free kick: Law 21 - Penalty and Free Kicks. A kick awarded to the non-offending team
after an infringement by its opponents Unless a Law states otherwise, a free kick
awarded because of an infringement is awarded at the place of infringement
cront row players: Law 20 - Scrum. The forward players who are the loose-head prop.
e hooker and the light-head prop. These players usually wear jersey No 1.2 and 3
pectively.
Goal: A player scores a goal by kicking the ball over an opponents' crossbar and between
the goal posts from the field of play, by a place kick or drop-kick. A goal cannot be scored
from a kick-off. drop-out or free kick.
Goal line: Law 1 - The Ground.
Grounding the ball: Law 22 - In Goal
H
Half-time: The interval between the two halves of the game.
Hand-off: An action taken by a ball carrier to fend off an opponent by using the palm of
the hand.
Hindmost foot: The foot of the hindmost player in a scrum, ruck or maul which is
nearest that player's goal-line
Hooker: Law 20 - Scrum The middle front row player in a scrum who usually wears
jersey No. 2
5
WORLD RUGBY
Definitions
WORLD
RUGBY.
i—field: Away from touch and towards the middle of the field.
i--goal: Law 22 - In-Goal.
i«ck: A kick is made by hitting the ball with any part of the leg or foot, except the heel,
oom the toe to the knee but not including the knee; a kick must move the ball a visible
isstance out of the hand, or along the ground.
bck-off: Law 13 • Kick-off and Restart Kicks.
mock-on: Law 12 - Knock-on or Throw-forward
iff ting: Law 19 - Touch and Lineout.
ime of touch: Law 19 • Touch and Lineout An imaginary line at right angles to the
rouchline at the place where the ball is thrown in from touch
meout: Law 19 - Touch and Lineout.
me through the mark or place: Unless stated otherwise, a line parallel to the
wuchline.
Dong throw: Law 19 - Touch and Lineout.
Doose-head prop: Law 20 - Scrum. The left front row player in a scrum who usually wears
rrseyNo 1
M
natch organiser: the organisation responsible for the match which may be a Union, a
coup of Unions or an organisation affiliated to World Rugby.
nark: Law 18 - Mark
naul: Law 1 7 - Maul.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
2016
N
Near. Within one metre.
0
Obstruction: Law 10 - Foul Play.
Offside: Law 11 - Offside and Onside in General Play
Offside line: An imaginary line across the ground, from one touchline to the other,
parallel to the goal-lines, the position of this line varies according to the Law.
Offside under the 10-Metre Law: Law 11 - Offside and Onside in General Play
Onside: Law 11 - Offside and Onside in General Play
Open or bleeding wound: Law 3 - Number of Players -The Team.
Out of play. This happens when the ball or the ball carrier has gone into touch or toucr
in-goal, or touched or crossed the dead ball line.
Oversteps: A player steps across a line with one or both feet; the line may be real (for
example, goal-line) or imaginary (for example, offside line)
p
Pass: A player throws the ball to another player; if a player hands the ball to another
player without throwing it. this is also a pass.
Peeling off: Law 19 ■ Touch and Lineout
Penalty goal: Law 9 • Method of Scoring.
Penally kick: Law 21 - Penalty and Free Kicks - A kick awarded to the non-offending
ream after an infringement by its opponents Unless a Law says otherwise, a penalty k-o
is awarded at the place of infringement
Penalty try. Law 10 - Foul Play.
Place kick: The ball is kicked after it has been placed on the ground for that purpose
Placer: A player who holds the ball on the ground for a team-mate to kick.
Played: The ball is played when it is touched by a player
Playing area: Lav/1 - The Ground.
Playing enclosure: Lav/1 ■ The Ground.
7
WORLD RUGBY
Definitions
WORLD
RUGBY.
Pllaying time: The time lhar has been played excluding rime lost as defined in
Laaw 5 ■ Time
Possession: This happens when a player is carrying the ball or a team has the ball in its
control; for example, the ball in one half of a scrum or ruck is in that team's possession.
Pnre-gripping: Law 19 - Touch and Lineout Gripping a team-mate in the lineout prior to
thne ball being thrown in
Pnrop: Law 20 Scrum. A front row player to the left or right of the hooker in a scrum
Thhese players usually wear jersey No’s. 1 and 3.
Puunt: The ball is dropped from the hand or hands and kicked before it touches the
grround.
Puushover try: Law 22 In-Goal.
R2
Reeceiver: Lav/19 • Touch and Lineout.
Reed Card: A card, red in colour shown to a player who has been sent off for contravening
Law 10 - Foul Play, Lav/ ^.5(c).
Referee: Law 6 • Match Officials.
Repeated infringements: Law 10 - Foul Play
Replacements: Law 3 - Number of Players - The Team
Ri.uck: Law 16 - Ruck.
s
Sianction: The punitive action taken by the referee against an infringing player or team.
Serum: Law 20 - Scrum. This happens v/hen players from each team come together in
sccrum formation so that play can be started by throwing the ball into the scrum
Serum half: A player nominated to throw the ball into a scrum who usually wears jersey
NUo. 9
Si.in bin: The designated area in which a temporarily suspended player must remain for
110 minutes playing lime
Substitutes: Law 3 - Number of Players - The Team
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
2016
8
Tackle: Law 15 • Tackle- Ball Garner Brought ro the Ground
Team-mate: Another player of the same ream.
Temporarily suspended: Law 10 • Foul Play
The plan: Law 1 • The Ground.
The 22: Law 1 - The Ground.
Throw-forward: Law 12 • Knock-On or Throw-Forward
Throw-in: The act of the player who throws the ball into a scrum or a lineout.
Tight-head prop: Law 20 • Scrum The right front row player in a scrum who usually wear
jersey No. 3.
Touch: Law 19 - Touch and Lineout
Touch down; Law 22 - In-goal.
Touchline: Law 1 The Ground
Touch-in-goal line: Law 1 - The Ground
Touch judge: Law 6 - Match Officials
ry: Law 9 • Method of Scoring.
u
Uncontested scrum: An uncontested scrum is the same as a normal scrum, except th<
the teams do not compete for the ball, the team throwing in the ball must win it. and
neither team is allowed to push.
Union: The controlling body under whose jurisdiction the match is played, for an
international match it means World Rugby or a Committee of World Rugby
Y
Yellow card: A card, yellow in colour shown to a player who has been cautioned and
temporarily suspended for 10 minutes playing time.
WORLD RUGBY
Before the match
-w 1 The Ground
■w2 The Ball
nv3 Number of Players - The Team
■w b Players’ Clothing
-»v5 Time
-,v6 Match Officials
(I)
WORLD
RUGBY.
WO«ID
RUGBY.
Law1 The Ground
The Plan
25 WORLD RUGBY
aw 1 The Ground
IVl)
I WORLD
RUGBY.
Playing area
Field of play
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
2016
26
WO«LO
RUGBY.
Law1 The Ground
DEFINITIONS
a! lines anS
onthepla"
the playing
less than
iludingthe:
The Ground is the total area shown on the plan. The Grou
The Field of play is the area (as shown on the plan) betw
the touchlines. These lines are not part of the field of play.
The Playing Area is the field of play and the In-goal area:
The touchlines, touch-ln-goal lines and dead ball lines are n
area.
The Playing Enclosure is the playing area and a space ar
metres where practicable, which is known as the perimet
In-goal is the area between the goal line and the dead bal
touch in-goal lines. It includes the goal line but it does no
line or the touch-in-goal lines.
The 22’ is the area between the goal line and the 22-me
metre line but excluding the goal line.
The Plan, including all the words and figures on If, is part of t
w
etween thj
e dead bal
1.1	SURFACE OF THE PLAYING ENCLOSURE__________________
(a)	Requirement. The surface must be safe to play on at all times.
(b)	Type of surface. The surface should be grass but may also be sand. clay, snow or art/
grass. The game may be played on snow, provided the snow and underlying surface are
safe ro play on. It shall not be a permanently hard surface such as concrete or asphalt
case of artificial grass surfaces, they must conform to World Rugby Regulation 2 2
1.2	REQUIRED DIMENSIONS FOR THE PLAYING ENCLOSURE
(a)	Dimensions. The field of play does not exceed 100 metres in length Each in-goal dos
exceed 22 metres in length. The playing area does not exceed 70 metres in width.
27 WORLD RUGBY
|_aw1 The Ground
—_________________________________________
WORLD
RUGBY.
(b)	The length and breadth of the playing area are to be as near as possible to the dimensions
indicated All the areas are rectangular.
(c)	The distance from the goal line to the dead ball line will preferably be not less than 10
metres
(d)	In respect of:
(i) Matches between the sen.or national representative team or the next senior national
representative team of a Union against the senior or next senior national representative
team of another Union; and
(ii) International seven-a side matches;
the dimensions should be as close to the maximum sizes as possible, and not less than 9Q
metres in length for the f.eld of play, 68 metres in width, and with a minimum in-goal leng
of 6 metres Unions wishing to vary minimum or maximum dimensions should apply for
dispensation to World Rugby.
(e)	The perimeter area should not be less than 5 metres where practicable
1.3	LINES ON THE PLAYING ENCLOSURE
(a)	Solid Lines
The dead ball lines and touch-m-goal lines, both of which are outside the in-goal areas.
The goal lines, which are within the in-goal areas but outside the field of play;
The 22-metre lines; which are parallel to the goal lines
The half way line which is parallel to the goal lines; and
The touchlines which are outside the field of play.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
2016
28
Law1 The Ground
(b)	Dash Lines
All lines other than solid lines are dash lines all of which are 5 metres in length.
There are two sets of dash lines which are 10 metres from, and parallel to. each side of r
half way line. These are called the 10 metre dash lines. The 10 metre dash I nes intersect
the dash Ines which are 5 metres and 15 metres parallel to each touch line
There are two sets of dash lines which are 5 metres from, and parallel to. each touch line
They run from the 5 metre dash fines. wh ch are parallel to each goal line and intersect be
22 metre lines, both 10 metre dash lines and the half way line These are called the 5 me
dash lines.
There are two sets of dash lines which are 15 metres from, and parallel to. each touch f '•
These dash fines run from the 5 metre dash lines which are parallel to each goal line, ax
intersect both 22 metre fines, both 10 metre dash lines and the half way line These are
called the 15 metre dash lines.
There are sa dash lines 5 metres from, and parallel to. each goal fine Two dash lines are |
positioned 5 metres and 15 metres from each touch fine A further two dash lines are
pos-tioned m front of each goal post so that there is 5 metres between these dash lines
(c)	Centre
There is one fine 0.5 metre long that intersects the centre of the half way line
1.4) DIMENSIONS FOR GOAL POSTS AND CROSSB;
(a)	The distance between the two goal posts is 5.6 metres.
(b)	The crossbar is placed between the two goal posts so that its top edge is 3 0 metres fror
the ground.
(c)	The mamum height of the goal posts is SA metres.
(d)	When padding is attached to the goal posts the distance from the goal fine to the extec-
edge of the padding must not exceed 300mm.
29 WORLD RUGBY
Law1 The Ground
Minimum height
3.4m
5.6m
------>.
3m to top
— om to Top
edge of bar
Goal posts
18.5	FLAG POSTS
(a)	There are 14 flag posts with flags, each with a minimum height of 1 2 metres above the
ground.
(b)	Flag posts must be positioned at the intersection of touchin-goal lines and the goal lines
and at the intersection of the touch in-goal lines and the dead ball I nes These eight flag
posts are outside rhe in-goal area and do nor form part of the playing area
(c)	Flag posts must be positioned in line with the 22-metre lines and the half way l.ne. 2 metres
outside the touchlines and within the playing enclosure
11.6	OBJECTIONS TO THE GROUND
(a) If either team has objections about the ground or the way it is marked out they must tell the
referee before the match starts.
(b) The referee will attempt to resolve the issues but must nor start a match If any part of the
ground is considered to be dangerous.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
2016
2.1	SHAPE
The ball must be oval and made of four panels
2.2	DIMENSIONS
Length m line
Circumference (end to end)
Circumference (in width)
280 • 300 millimetres
7^0- 770 millimetres
580 • 620 millimetres
2.3
MATERIALS
Leather or salable synthetic material. It may be treated to make it water resistant ar.3
easier to gr-p
31 WORLD RUGBY
Law 2 The Ball
2..A WEIGHT
*dO ■ ^60 grams
2..5 AIR PRESSURE AT THE START OF PLAY
65.71 68 75 kilopascals. or 0.67 0.70 kilograms per square centimetre. or 9 5-10.0 lbs per
square inch.
2.-.6 SPARE BALLS
Spare balls may be available during a match, but a team must not gain or attempt to gain
an unfair advantage by using them or changing them
2.7___SMALLER BALLS
Bal's of different sizes may be used for matches between young players.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
r 2016 1
32
Law 3 Number of Players - The Team
DEFINITIONS
A Team. A team consists of fifteen players who start the plus any
authorised replacements and/or substitutes.
Replacement. A player who replaces an Injured team-mate. -
Substitute. A player who replaces a team-mate for tact|«feasons.
3.1	MAXIMUM NUMBER OF PLAYERS ON THE PLAYING AREA
Max mum. each team must have no more than fifteen players on tne playing area d -
play
.2 TEAM WITH MORE THAN THE PERMITTI

Objection: at any time before or during a match a team may make an objection to r -
referee about the number of players in their opponents' team As soon as the referee «■
that a team has too many p’ayers, the referee must order the capta n of that team to
reduce the number appropriately. The score ar the time of the objection remains uns ~
Sanction: Pena:ty at the place where the match would restart
3.3 WHEN THERE ARE FEWER THAN FIFTEEN PLAYERS
A Union may authorise matches to be played with fewer than fifteen players in each r= _
When that happens, a l the Laws of the Game apply except that each team mus’ ha.-= .
least five players in the scrum at all times.
Exception: matches between teams of Seven a side are an exception. These matches
covered by the Seven a side Variations to the Laws of the Game
33 WORLD RUGBY
Law 3 Number of Players - The Team
WORLD
RUGBY.
5.A PLAYERS NOMINATED AS SUBSTITUTES
(a)	For international marches a Union may nominate up ro eight replacements/substitutes
(b)	For other matches, the Union or match organiser with jurisdi ction over the march decides
how many replacements/substitutes may be nominated to a maximum of eight.
(c)	A Union (or Unions, where a match or competition is played between teams from two or
more Unions) may decide how many replacements/substitutes may be nominated to a
maximum of eight
(d)	A ream can substitute up to two front row players (subject to Law 3.5 (f) and (g) when it
may be three) and up ro five other players.
(e)	Substitutions may only be made when the ball is dead and with the permission of the
referee.
35.5	THE FRONT ROW - REPLACEMENTS AND SUBSTITIONS
(a)	It is the team's responsibility to ensure that all front row players and potential front row
replacements are suitably trained. It is not for the referee ro determine whether any player
is suitably framed to play in the front row.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
2016
Law 3 Number of Players - The Team
________________________________________
(b)	The table below indicates the minimum number of front row players by squad sze a.'-- ’ I
minimum replacement obl gations:
SniLuUh* Minimum number of front row Must be Sable to replace a* 1
bquaostze players In the squad first tim|of asking
15 or less	3	-
16.17 or 18	A	Either prop or hooker
19.20.21 or 22	5	Either prop or hooker
23	6	Loose head prop, tighr-heaz prop and nooker	
A Union may. having taken player welfare into account, amend the minimum numoe*' -
front row players in the squad and the minimum replacement obligations at defined «= -
of the Came within its jurisdiction.
Where the Umon/match organiser has determined squad sizes of 23 and a team is cr
ab’e to nom nate two front raw replacements, then that team may nominate only 22
players in their squad
((c) Prior to the match, each team must adv.se the referee of their front row players and
potential front raw replacements and only these players may play in the fronr row wte*
scrum is contested
(d)	A rep'acement front row player may start the match in another position.
35 WORLD RUGBY

law 3
Number of Players - The Team

>5.6 UNCONTESTED SCRUMS
(a)	Scrums wJI become uncontested if either team cannot field a suitably trained front row or if
the referee so orders.
(b)	Unions/matcn organisers may determine whether or not a game may start or continue with
uncontested scrums
(c)	When a front row player leaves the playing area. whether through injury or temporary or
permanent suspension, the referee will enquire al that lime whether the team can continue
with contested scrums If the referee is informed that the team will not be able to contest
the scrum then the referee will order unconfested scrums. If the player returns or another
front row player comes on then contested scrums may resume.
(d)	In a squad of 23 players, or al the discretion of the Union/match organiser, a player whose
departure has caused the referee to order uncontesled scrums cannot be replaced.
(e)	If they are available, a team must have three front row players In the front row at all times
In an uncontested scrum, only when there is no available front row replacement or
substitute is any other player permitted to play in the front row.
(f)	If. as a result of a front row player being temporarily suspended, another player has to be
nominated by rhe ream to leave the playing area to enable an available front row player to
come on. the nominated player may not return until the period of suspension ends
(g)	If. as a result of a front row player being sent off, another player has to be nominated by the
team to leave the playing area to enable an available front row player to come on. the
nominated player may act as a replacement/substitute.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
2016
36
Law 3 Number of Players - The Team
3.7	SENT OFF FOR FOUL PLAY__________
A player sent off for foul p’ay must not be replaced or substituted. For an exception to
Law. refer to Law 3.5.
3.8	PERMANENT REPLACEMENT
__________________________________
A player may be permanently replaced if injured If the player is permanently replaced-r
player must nor return and play in that march. The replacement of the injured player r~ -
be made when the ball is dead and with the permission of the referee.
3.9	THE DECISION FOR PERMANENT REPLAC
(a)	When a national representative team is playing in a match, a player may be replaced cr
when, in the op>n.on of a doctor, the player is so injured that it would be unwise for the"
player to continue play.ng in that match
b) In other matches, where a Union has given explicit permission, an injured player ma / te
rep'aced on the advice of a medically trained person. If none is present, that player me?
rep’aced if the referee agrees.
3.10	THE REFEREE’S POWER TO STOP AN INJUR
CONTINUING__________
If the referee decides - with or without the advice of a doctor or other medically qua'
person - that a player is so injured that the p’ayer should stop playing, the referee may
order that player to leave the playing area. The referee may also order an injured pays’
leave the field in order to be medica'ly examined
37 WORLD RUGBY
Law 3 Number of Players - The Team
vl)
WORLD
RUGBY.
3.11	TEMPORARY REPLACEMENT - BLOOD INJURY
(a)	When a player has a blood injury, which has uncontrolled active bleeding (a blood injury),
that player may be temporarily replaced. The injured player must return to play as soon as
the bleeding has been controlled and/or covered. If the player who has been temporarily
replaced is not available to return to the field of play within 15 minutes (actual time) of
leav.ng rhe playing area, the replacement becomes permanent and the replaced player
must not return to the field of play.
(b)	In international matches, the Match Day Doctor shall decide whether an injury is a blood
injury necessitating a temporary replacement
(c)	Minor cuts and abrasions not constituting a blood injury should be treated during stoppages
in play for other reasons
(d)	If the temporary rep'acement is injured, that player may also be replaced.
(e)	If the temporary replacement is sent off for foul play, the replaced player may not return to
the field of play
(f)	If the temporary replacement is cautioned and temporarily suspended, the replaced player
may not return to the field of play until after the period of suspension
23.12 TEMPORARY REPLACEMENT - HEAD INJURY ASSESSMENT
If, at any point during a match, a player is concussed or has suspected concussion, that
player must be immediately and permanently removed from the field of play This is known
as ’Recognise and Remove’
In elite adult matches only, which have been approved in advance by World Rugby
(pursuant to Regulations 10 1 A and 1015) for use of the Head Injury Assessment and this
temporary replacement procedure, a player who is to have a Head Injury Assessment
• Must leave the field of play, and
• Shall be temporarily replaced (even if all of the substitutes/replacements have been used).
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
2016 1
38
Law 3
Number of Players - The Team
This is to allow for the assessment of a player where if is not immediately apparent if the
player has concussion or suspected concussion and should be permanently removed fro"
the field of p'ay.
Where such a player has been temporarily replaced:
(a)	If that player is not presented to a match official on the touchline within ten minutes (act-
time) of leaving the field of play to undergo the Head Injury Assessment, the replaceme^
wtll automatical become permanent and the replaced player is not allowed to return to ~
field of p'ay.
(b)	If the temporary replacement takes place within the ten minutes before half-time, the
replacement shall become permanent unless the replaced player returns to the field of
immediately at the start of the second-half.
(c)	Unless the temporary replacement becomes permanent, the temporary replacement is
prohio ted from taking penalty kicks at goal or conversion kicks
I) The temporary replacement can be temporarily replaced if the player requires a Head Inf-'
Assessment (even if a l of the replacements have been used)
•) If the temporary rep'acement is ordered off the field for foul play, the replaced player sna
not be a lowed to return to the field of play, except in accordance with Law 3.5 (The Fro-'
Row - Replacements and Substitutions) and Law 3.1 (Substituted Players Rejo n.ng The
Match), and only if the player has been medically cleared to do so and is presented to a
match official on the touchline within ten minutes (actual time) of leaving the field of pte
to undergo the Head Injury Assessment
(f)	If the temporary replacement is cautioned and temporarily suspended, the replaced p'j
is not perm ned to return to the field of play until after the period of suspension, except r
accordance with Law 3.5 (The Front Row - Replacements and Substitutions) and La a 3 ' -
(Substituted P ayers Rejoining The Match), and only if the player has been medically c e=
to do so and is presented to a match official on the touchline within ten minutes (actual
time) of leaving the fie'.d of p'ay to undergo the Head Injury Assessment
39 WORLD RUGBY
Law 3 Number of Players - The Team

3.13 PLAYER WISHING TO REJOIN THE MATCH
(a)	A player who has a blood injury which has uncontrolled active bleeding must leave the
playing area. The player must not return until the bleeding is controlled and the wound has
been covered
(b)	A player who leaves a match because of injury or any other reason must not rejoin the
match until the referee permits the player to return. The referee must not let a player rejoin
a match until the ball is dead
(c)	if a player re(o ns or a replacement/substitute joins the match without the referee's
permission, and the referee believes the player did so to help that player’s team or obstruct
the opposing team, the referee penalises the player for misconduct.
Sanction. ’ penalty > . . . /arded at the place where play would restart.
3.1	A SUBSTITUTED PLAYERS REJOINING THE MATCH
If a player is substituted, that player may only return to play when replacing
• an injured front row player in accordance with Law 3.5
• a player with a blood injury in accordance with Law 3.11
• a player undertaking a Head Injury Assessment in accordance with Law 3.12
• a player who has been injured as a result of foul play (as verified by the Match Officials).
3.15 ROLLING SUBSTITUTIONS
A Union may implement rolling substitutions at defined levels of the Came within its
jurisdiction The number of substitutions must nor exceed twelve The administration and
rules relating to rolling substitutions are the responsibility of the Union having jurisdiction.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
2016
! VI? WOULD RUGBY. J	Law 4	Players’ Clothing	
			
thing and
DEFINITIONS
Players* clothing is anything players wear.
A player wears a jersey, shorts and underwear, socks an
he sleeve of a jersey must extend at least half
Detailed Information relating to the permitted specifi
studs maybe found in World Rugby Specifications (Reg
A.1 ADDITIONAL ITEMS OF CLOTHING
(a)	A player may wear supports made of elasticated or compressible materials which mus’
washable
(b)	A player may wear sh n guards which conform with World Rugby Specifications (Regu'a' -
12).
(c)	A player may wear ankle supports worn under socks, not extending higher than one the: -
me length of the shin and. if rigid, from material other than metal
(d)	A player may wear mitts (fingerless gloves) which must conform to World Rugby
Specifications (Regulation 12).
(e)	A player may wear shoulder pads which must bear the World Rugby Approval Mark
(Regulation 12).
(f)	A player may wear a mouth guard or dental protector
(g)	A player may wear headgear which must bear the World Rugby Approval Mark (Regu’a* g*
12).
Al WORLD RUGBY
ILaw 4 Players’ Clothing
RUGBY.
(h)	A player may wear bandages and/or dressings to cover or protect any injury.
(i)	A player may wear thin tape or other similar material as support and/or to prevent injury.
LAW AMENDMENT TRIAL
(j)	A player may wear goggles which must bear the World Rugby Approval Stark (Regulation
12).
(c)	Headscarves, providing they do not cause a danger to the wearer or other players and do
not contravene Regulation 12.
jwcx;-----------------------------
(a)	Studs of players' boots must conform with World Rugby Specifications (Regulation 12).
(b)	Moulded rubber multi studded soles are acceptable provided they have no sharp edges or
ridges
LAWS of the game rugby union
2016 1
wobid
RUGBY.
Law 4 Players’ Clothing
BANNED ITEMS OF CLOTHING
(a)	A player must not wear any item that is contaminated by blood
(b)	A player must not wear any item that is sharp or abrasive
(c)	A p'ayer must not wear any items containing buckles, dips, rings, hinges, zippers, scre/.s.
bolts or tig d matenal or projection not otherwise permitted under this Law
(d)	A p'ayer must not wear jewellery such as nngs or earn ngs
(e)	A p'ayer must not wear gloves.
(0 A player must not wear shorts with padding sewn into them.
(g)	A player must not wear any other item which does not conform with World Rugby
Specifications for such clothing (Regu'ation 12).
h) A player must not wear any item that is normally permitted by Law. but, in the referee s
op mon that is liable to cause injury to a player.
(') A p'ayer must not wear communication devices within that player's clothing or attached ~
the body.
(0 A player must not wear any additional item of clothing that does not conform to Worid
Rugby Regu'ation 12.
A3 WORLD RUGBY
Law 4 Players’ Clothing
vl)
WOULD
RUGBY.
A.5 INSPECTION OF PLAYERS' CLOTHING
(a)	The referee or the touch judges appointed by or under the authority of the match organiser
must inspect the players’ clothing and studs for conformity to this Law.
(b)	The referee has power to decide al any time, before or during the match, that part of a
player’s clothing is dangerous or illegal. If the referee decides that clothing is dangerous or
illegal the referee must order the player to remove it The player must nor ta’<e part in the
match until the items of ciothmg are removed.
(c)	If. at an inspection before the match, the referee or a touch judge tells a player that an item
banned under this Law is being worn, and the player is subsequently found to be wearing
that item on the playing area, that player Is sent off for misconduct.
Sanction •’ penalty!. • warded at the place where play is restarted
A.6 WEARING OTHER CLOTHING
The referee must not allow any player to leave the p’aying area to change items of clothing.
unless these are bloodstained.
For more information on provisions relating to players’s dress, see World Rugby Regulation
12 at
http7/playerwelfare.worldrugby.org/reg12
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
2016
5.1	DURATION OF A MATCH J
A match lasts no longer than 80 minutes plus time lost, extra time and any special
condhons A match is divided into two halves each of not more than forty minutes p'a.
time.
5.2	HALF-TIME
After half time the teams change ends There is an Interval of not more than 15 minuses
The length of the interval is decided by the match organiser, the Union or the recognised
body which has junsdiction over the game During the interval the teams, the referee a'-
the touch judges may leave the playing enclosure.
5.3	TIMEKEEPING
The referee keeps the time but may delegate the duty to either or both the touch judges
and/or the official time keeper, in which case the referee signals to them any stoppage c*
time or time lost In matches without an official time keeper, if the referee is in doubt as ~
the correct time the referee consults either or both the touch judges and may consult c~e
but only if the touch judges cannot help.
5.^ TIME LOST >
Time lost may be due to the following:
(a) Injury. The referee may stop play for not more than one minute so that an injured p'c,£
can be treated, or for an-/ other permitted delay
The referee may allow play to continue while a medically trained person treats an injured
player in the playing area or the player may go to the touchline for treatment.
<r5 WORLD RUGBY
Law 5 Time
If a player is seriously injured and needs to be removed from the field of play, the referee
has the discretion to allow the necessary lime to have the injured player removed from the
field-of-play
(b)	Replacing players' clothing. When the bail is dead, the referee allows lime for a player to
replace or repair a badly torn jersey, shorts or boots Time is allowed for a player to re tie a
boot-lace
(c)	Replacement and substitution of players Time is allowed when a player is replaced or
substituted.
(d)	Referee consulting with assistant referee(s) or other officials. Time is allowed for
consultations between referee and assistant referees or other officials.
Wj
5.5	MAKING UP FOR TIME LOST
Any playing time lost is maoe up in the same half of the match.
EXTRA TIME
A match may last more than eighty minutes if the Match Organiser has authorised the
playing of extra lime in a drawn match in a knock-out competition.
5.7	OTHER TIME REGULATIONS
(a)	In International matches, play always lasts eighty minutes plus lost time.
(b) In non-international matches a Union may decide the length of a match
(c)	If the Union does not decide, the teams agree on the length of a match. If they cannot
agree, the referee decides.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
2016
(d)	The referee has the power to end the match at any time. >f the referee believes that p<
should not continue because it would be dangerous.
(e)	If t-me expies and the ba'I is nor dead, or an awarded scrum or lineout has not been
comp'eted. the referee allows play to continue until the next time that the ball become
dead The ball becomes dead when the referee would have awarded a scrum. l-neol e
option to the non-infringing team, drop out or after a conversion or successful penat, •-
at goa' If a scrum has to be reset, the scrum has not been completed. If rime expires a*
mark, free kick or penalty kick is then awarded, rhe referee allows play to continue
(f)	if t.me exp.res after a try has been scored the referee allows time for the conversion kx>'
be taken.
(g)	A team scoring a try near rhe end of the match may fake rhe conversion kick or nor.
Providing they decline to rake the kick or rake the kick within the time remaning, a res's'
will occur and the march will end at rhe next stoppage within Law Time is taken from - ■.
strike on the ball.
(h)	If there has been a score towards the end of the match and there is time for the restar •
to rake place, but time wll expire immediately after the kick, and the kicker
• does not kick the ba I ten metres
• kicks the ball directly into touch
• kicks the ball dead on or over the opponents touch-in-goal or dead ball line
the referee will offer the non-offending ream the options provided by Law 13.7.13 8
13 9 respectively and the match continues until the ball next becomes dead
(i)	When weather cond tons are exceptionally hot and/or humid, the referee, al his disor -
wJI be perm tied to allow one waler break in each half. This water break should be no r
than one minute. Time lost should be added on at the end of each half The water bre :•
should normally be taken after a score or when the ball is out of play near the hall way
hl WORLD RUGBY
Law 6
Match Officials
6».A REFEREE
BEFORE THE MA ECH
The referee is appointed by the match organiser If no referee has been appointed the two
teams may agree upon a referee. If they cannot agree, the home team appoints a referee.
6..A.2 REPLACING THE REFEREE
If the referee is unable to complete the match, the referee's replacement is appointed
according to the instructions of the match organiser. If the match organiser has given no
instructions, the referee appoints the replacement If the referee cannot do so, the home
team appoints a replacement.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
2016
48
Law 6
Match Officials
vl)
WORLD
RUGBY.
6.A.3 DUTIES OF THE REFEREE BEFORE THE MATCH_________
(a)	Toss. The referee organises rhe toss. One of the captains losses a com and the other
captain calls to see who wins the toss. The winner of rhe toss decides w hether to kick off c
to choose an end If the winner of the toss decides to choose an end. the opponents nxz*
kick off and vice versa.
DURING THE MATCH
6.A4 THE DUTIES OF THE REFEREE IN THE PLAYII
• ■!
(a)	The referee 6 the sole judge of fact and of Law during a match. The referee must app'/
fairly a'l the laws of the Came in every match
(b)	The referee keeps the time
.) The referee keeps the score.
W WORLD RUGBY
WORLD
RUGBY.
Law 6 Match Officials
6.A.5 ENTERING OR LEAVING THE PLAYING AREA
(a)	Authorised medically trained persons may enter the playing area during the match to
attend to injured players. They must only enter the playing area if it is safe to do so.
(b)	Persons carrying water for the players may only enter the playing area during a stoppage in
play for an injury to a player.
(c)	A person carrying a kicking tee may enter the field of play after a team has indicated that
they intend to kick ar goal after that team has been awarded a penalty kick or scored a try.
(d)	The referee gives permission to the players to leave the playing area.
(e)	The referee gives permission to the replacements or substitutes to enter the p'aying area
(f)	The coaches may enter the playing area ar half-time to attend to their teams.
■6.A.6 REFEREE ALTERING A DECISION
The referee may alter a decision when a touch judge has raised the flag to signal touch
The referee may alter a decision when an assistant referee has raised the flag to signal
touch or an act of foul play.
■ 6.A.7 REFEREE CONSULTING WITH OTHERS
(a) The referee may consult with assistant referees about matters relating to their duties, the
Law relating to foul play or timekeeping and may request assistance related to other
aspects of the referee's duties including the adjudication of offside
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
2016
50
Law 6 Match Officials
LAW AMENDMENT TRIAL |
(b)	A match organiser may appoint an official known as a Television Match Official (TMO) ■'
uses technological devices to clarify situations relating to;
(i) When there is doubt as to whether a ball has been grounded in in goal for a score □ ■.
touchdown.
(n) Where there is doubt as to whether a kick at goal has been successful.
(ui) Where there is doubt as to whether players were in touch or touch in goal before
grounding the ball in ingoal or the ball has been made dead
(iv)	Where match officials believe an offence or infringement may have occurred in re
of play leading to a try or preventing a try.
(v)	Renewing situations where match officials believe foul play may nave occurred.
(vi)	Clarifying sanctions required for acts of foul play.
(c)	Any of tne match officials including the TMO may recommend a review by the TMO T*e
reviews w-.il take place in accordance with rhe TMO protocol in place at the time whxh v
be available at laws.worldrugby.org.
(d)	A match organ.ser may appoint a timekeeper who will signify the end of each half.
(e)	The referee must not consult with any other persons
51 WORLD RUGBY
WORLD
RUGBY.
Law 6 Match Officials
6a.A.8 THE REFEREE’S WHISTLE
(a) Lhe referee must carry a whistle and blow the whistle to indicate the beginning and end of
each half of the match.
(b)	The referee has the power to blow the whistle and stop play ar any rime.
(c)	The referee must blow the whistle to indicate a score, or a touch down.
(d)	The referee must blow the whistle to slop play because of an infringement or for an offence
of foul play When the referee cautions or sends off the offender, rhe referee must whistle a
second time when the penalty kick or penalty try is awarded.
(e)	The referee must blow the whistle when the ball has gone out of play, or when it has
become unplayable, or when a penally is awarded.
(f)	The referee must blow the whistle when it would be dangerous to let play continue or when
it is probable that a player has been seriously injured
6..A.9 THE REFEREE AND INJURY
If the referee stops p’ay because a player has been injured, and there has been no
infringement and the ball has not been made dead, play restarts with a scrum The team
last in possession throws in the ball. If neither team was in possession, lhe attacking team
throws in the ball.
6..A.10 THE BALL TOUCHING THE REFEREE
(a) If rhe ball or the ball carrier touches the referee and neither team gams an advantage, play
continues. If either team gains an advantage in the field of play, the referee orders a scrum
and the team that last played the ball has the throw-in.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
2016
52
(d)	If e.ther learn gains an advantage m in-goal, if the ball is in possession of an attacking pasf
the referee a wards a try where the contact took place.
(c)	If either team gains an advantage in in goal, if the ball is in possession of a defending p -
the referee awards a touch down where the contact took place
6.A.11 THE BALL IN IN-GOAL TOUCHED BY NON-
The referee judges what would have happened next and awards a try or a touch do/.n r
the place where the ball was touched.
THE MATCH
The referee commun cates the score to the teams and to the match organiser.
.13 PLAYER SENT-OFF

If a player is sent off the referee gives the match organiser a written report on the foul r •
infringement as soon as poss ble
6.B TOUCH JUDGES AND ASSISTANT REFEREES
BEFORE THE MATCH
6.B.1 APPOINTING TOUCH JUDGES AND ASSISTANT REFEREES
There are two touch judges or two assistant referees for every match. Unless they ha. e
been appointed by or under the authority of the match organiser, each team prov des a
touch judge
53 WORLD RUGBY
Law 6 Match Officials
6.B.2 REPLACING A TOUCH JUDGE OR ASSISTANT REFEREE
The match organiser may nominate a person to act as a replacement for the referee, the
touch judges or assistant referees This person is called the reserve touch judge or reserve
assistant referee and stands in the perimeter area
6.B.3 CONTROL OF TOUCH JUDGES AND ASSISTANT REFEREES
The referee has control over both touch judges or assistant referees The referee may tell
them what their dut .es are. and may overrule their decisions If a touch judge is
unsatisfactory the referee may ask that the touch judge be replaced. If the referee believes
a touch judge is gurty of misconduct, the referee has power to send the touch judge off and
make a report to the match organiser.
DURING 7.
■ 6.B4 WHERE THE TOUCH JUDGES OR ASSISTANT REFEREES SHOULDB|
(a) There is one touch judge or assistant referee on each side of the ground The touch judge c
assistant referee remains in touch except when judging a kick at goal. When judging a kick
at goal the touch judges or assistant referees stand in in goal behind the goal posts.
(o) An assistant referee may enter the playing area when reporting an offence of dangerous
play or misconduct to the referee. The assistant referee may do this only at the next
stoppage in play.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
2016
6.B.5 TOUCH JUDGE OR ASSISTANT REFEREE SIGNALS
(a) Each touch judge or assistant referee carries a flag or something similar with which tos;-
decisions.
(b) Signalling result of kick at goal. When a
convers-on kick or a penalty kick ar goal is
be.ng taken, the touch judges or assistant i
referees must help the referee by signalling
the result of the kick. One touch judge or
assistant referee stands at or behind each
goal post, if the ball goes over the crossbar '
and between the posts, the touch judges or
assistant referees raise the flags to indicate
a goal.
Kick at goal successful
(c)	Signalling touch. When the ball or the ball
carrier has gone nto touch, the touch judge
or assistant referee must hold up the flag.
The touch judge or assistant referee must
stand at the place of the throw-m and point
to the team entitled to throw in. The touch
judge or assistant referee must also signal
when the ball or the ball earner has gone
into touch-in-goal.
Signalling touch and
team to throw in
55 WORLD RUGBY
Law 6 Match Officials
_________________________________
wot 10
RUGBY.
(d)	When to lower the flag. When the ball is thrown in. the touch judge or assistant referee
must lower rhe flag, with the following exceptions.
Exception 1: When the player throwing m puts any part of either foot m the field of p'ay,
the touch judge or assistant referee keeps the flag up.
Exception 2: When the team nor entitled to throw in has done so. the touch judge or
assistant referee keeps the flag up.
Exception 3: When, ar a q j ck throw-in. the
ball that went into touch is replaced by
another ball, or after it went into touch or it
has been touched by anyone except the
player who fakes the throw-in. the touch
judge or assistant referee keeps the flag up
(e)	It is for the referee, and not the touch judge
or assistant referee, to decide whether or
not the ball was thrown in from the correct
place
(f)	Signalling foul play. An assistant referee
signals that foul play or misconduct has
been seen by holding the flag horizontally
and pointing infield at right angles to the
touchline.
Signalling foul play
46.B.6 AFTER SIGNALLING FOUL PLAY
A match organiser may give authority to the assistant referee to signal for foul play. If an
assistant referee signals foul play, the assistant referee must stay in touch and continue to
carry out ail the other duties until the next stoppage in play. At the invitation of the referee
the assistant referee may then enter the playing area to report the offence to the referee
The referee may then take whatever action is needed. Any sanction awarded will be in
accordance with Law 10 - Foul Play.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
2016
AFTER THE MATCH
6.B.7 PLAYER SENT-OFF
If a player has been sentoff foHo.vng an assistant referee’s signal and report to the re‘«
the assistant referee submits a written report about the incident to rhe referee as socri
possb'e after the match and provides it to the match organiser.
6.C ADDITIONAL PERSONS
ssr
6.C.1 RESERVE TOUCH lUDGE OR ASSIST/
When a reserve touch judge or assistant referee is appointed, the referee s authority 1
regarding replacements and substitutions may be delegated to the reserve touch judge!
reserve assistant referee.

>.C.2 THOSE WHO MAY ENTER THE PLAYING ARE
$
In the case of in.ury. only the match doctor and/or the non-playing members of ’helew
who are medically tra ned (only qualified Doctors or Physiotherapists) may enter the par
area while play continues.
The other non-playing members of the team may enter the playing area while p'ay
contnues. provided they have permission from the referee Otherwise, they enter oriy
when the bail is dead. Such persons must not obstruct, interfere or make any comme"
the match officials.
WORLD RUGBY
During the match
MAethod of playing the match
Laaw7
Law 8
Law 9
Law 10
Law 11
Law 12
Mode of Play
Advantage
Method of Scoring
Foul Play
Offside and Onside in General Play
Knock-on or Throw forward
WORLD
RUGBY.

WOULD
RUGBY.
Law 7
Mode of Play
7.1	PLAYING A MATCH
A match is started by a kickoft
After the kick off, any player who is onside may take the ball and run with it
Any player may throw it or kick it.
Any player may give the ball to another player
Any player may tackle, hold or push an opponent holding the ba I
Any player may fall on the ball.
Any p'ayer may take pan in a scrum, ruck, maul or lineout
Any player may ground rhe ball in in goal.
A ball carrier may hand off an opponent
Whatever a player does must be in accordance with the Laws of the Game

59 WORLD RUGBY
Law 8 Advantage
WOBIO
RUGBY.
DEFINITIONS
The Law of advantage takes precedence over most other Laws and Its purpose Is
to make play more continuous with fewer stoppages for infringements. Players are
encouraged to play to |he whjstle despite Infringements by their opponents. When
the result of an infringmnentSe one team is that their opposing team may gain an
advantage, the refemmraSwvhlstle immediately for the infringement.
IN PRACTICE
(a)	The referee is sole judge of whether or nor a ream has gained an advantage. The referee
has wide discretion when making decisions.
(b)	Advantage can be either territorial or tactical.
(c)	Territorial advantage means a gain in ground.
(d)	Tactical advantage means freedom for the non-offending ream to play the ball as they wish.
8.2	WHEN ADVANTAGE DOES NOT ARISE
The advantage must be clear and real A mere opportunity to gam advantage is not enough.
If the non-offending team does not gam an advantage, the referee blows the whistle and
brings play back to the place of infringement.
8.3	WHEN THE ADVANTAGE LAW IS NOT APPLIED
(a)	Referee contact. Advantage must not be applied when the ball, or a player carrying it.
touches the referee.
(b)	Ball out of tunnel. Advantage must not be applied when the ball comes out of either end
of the tunnel at a scrum without having been played
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
2016
60

WOULD
RUGBY.
Law 8 Advantage
(c)	Wheeled scrum. Advantage must not be applied when the scrum is wheeled throug" ~
than 90 degrees (so that the m ddle line has passed beyond a position paral'el to tne
touchlme)
(d)	Player lifted In the air. Advantage must not be appl.ed when a player m a scrum is I4'-'
the air or forced upwards and has no support on the ground The referee must b'.CA tre
whistle immediately.
(e)	After the ball has been made dead. Advantage cannot be played after the bail nas t-.-
made dead
IMMEDIATE WHISTLE WHEN NO ADVANT/
The referee blows the whistle having determined that an advantage cannot be ga’nK -
the non-offendmg team
.5 MORE THAN ONE INFRINGEMENT
(a)	When there is more than one infringement by the same team
If advantage cannot be played or does not accrue to the second offence, the referee
applies the appropriate sanction to the offence which is most advantageous to the-:
offending team.
If e.ther sanct.on is for foul p'ay the referee applies the appropriate sanction to the eft
which is most advantageous to the non-offendmg team. The referee may also temp:
suspend, or order off. the offend ng player
(b)	If advantage is being played following an infringement by one team and then theo"c
team commit an infringement, the referee blows the whistle and applies the sanctions
associated with the first infringement If either infringement is for foul play, the referee
appl.es the appropriate sanction for that offence. The referee may also temporarily
suspend, or order off. the offending p'ayer.
61 WORLD RUGBY
Law 9
Method of Scoring
0
9.A SCORING POINTS
9.A.1 POINTS VALUES
Try. When an attacking player is first to ground the
ball in the opponents’ n-goal, a try is scored
Penalty Try. If a player would probably have scored a
try but for foul play by an opponent, a penalty try is
awarded between rhe goal pests.
Conversion Goal. When a player scores a try it gives
the player s ream the right to attempt to score a goal
by taking a kick at goal; th s also applies to a penalty
try. This kick is a convers.on kick a conversion kick can
be a place kick or a drop kick.
Penalty Goal. A player scores a penalty goal by
kicking a goal from a penalty kick.
Dropped Goal. A p.'ayer scores a dropped goal by
kicking a goal from a drop kick in general play. The
team awarded a free kick cannot score a dropped goal
until the ball next becomes dead, or until an opponent
has played or touched it. or has tackled the ball carrier.
This restriction applies also to a scrum taken instead
of a free kick.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
2016
62
WORLD
RUGBY.
Law 9 Method of Scoring
9.A.2 KICK AT GOAL - SPECIAL CIRCUMSTANCES
(a)	If after the ball is kicked, it touches the ground or any team mate of the kicker, a goal ci'-'
be scored
(b)	If the ba’I has crossed the crossbar a goal is scored, even if the wind blows it back into re
field of play.
(c)	if an opponent commits an offence as the kick at goal is being taken, but nevenn’essre
kick is successful, advantage is played and the score stands
(d)	Any player who touches the ball in an attempt to prevent a penalty goal being scored 6
(’legally touching the ball.
Sanction. Pena ry kick
IB CONVERSION KICK
(a)	The kicker must use the ba'I that was in play unless it is defective.
(b)	The kick is taken on a line through the place where'the try was scored in the field of p'?-
(c)	A team mate may hold the ball for the kicker to kick.
(d)	The kicker may place the ball directly on the ground or on sand, sawdust or a kicking tee
approved by the Union. No other form of assistance may be used.
63 WORLD RUGBY
Law 9
Method of Scoring
WORLD
RUGBY.
(e)	The kicker must lake the kick within one minute and thirty seconds (ninety seconds) from
the time a try has been awarded The player must take lhe kick within one minute and thirty
seconds even if the ball rolls over and has io be placed again
Sanction: The kick is disallowed if the kicker does not take the kick within the lime allowed.
9.B.2 DECLINING A CONVERSION KICK
(a)	Tne decision to decline the conversion must be relayed by the try scorer to lhe referee, by
saying *No kick* after lhe award of lhe try and before lhe lime reaches 00.00.
(b)	Once the decision is made to decline the conversion, the referee will award a restart kick.
The restart kick will take place regardless of whether or not players were ready at 00.00.
9.B.3 THE KICKER’S TEAM
(a)	All the kicker's team, except the placer, must be behind the ball when it is kicked.
(b)	Neither the kicker nor a placer must do anything to mislead their opponents into charging
too soon
(c)	If the ball falls over before the kicker begins lhe approach to kick, the referee permits the
kicker to replace It without excessive delay While lhe ball is replaced, the opponents must
stay behind their goal line.
If the ball falls over after the kicker begins the approach to kick, lhe kicker may then kick or
attempt a dropped goal
If the ball falls over and rolls away from the line through the place where lhe try was scored,
and lhe kicker then kicks the ball over lhe crossbar, a goal is scored.
If the ball falls over and rolls into touch after the kicker begins the approach to kick, the kick
is disallowed
Sanction: (a)-(c) If the kicker's team infringes, lhe kick is disallowed.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
2016
bb
9.B4 THE OPPOSING TEAM
(a)	All p’ayers of the opposing team must retire to their goal line and must not overstep tn?
I ne until the kicker begins the approach to kick or starts to kick. When the kicker does ~
they may charge or jump to prevent a goal but must not be physically supported by c''^
players in these actions.
(b)	When the ball falls over after the kicker began the approach ro kick, the opponents ma.
continue to charge
(c)	A defending team must not shout during a kick at goal.
Sanction (a)(c) If the opposing team infringes but the kid . ■ sful. rhe goal star-
If the kick is unsuccessful, the kicker may take another kick ano ihe opposing team finer
allowed to charge
When another kick is allotted, the kicker may repeal all the preparations. The kicker ma/
change the type of kick.
65 WORLD RUGBY
Law1O Foul Play
DEFINITION
Fou! play is anything a p
letter and spirit of the Lat
repeated Infrlngemdftft
Game.

ION
ioes within the playing enclosure that is against the
lie Game. It includes obstruction, unfair play,
(fous play and misconduct which is prejudicial to the

(a)	Charging or pushing. When a player and an opponent are running for the bail, either
player must not charge or push the other except shoulder-ro-shoulder.
Sanction Pen . • 'icf
(b)	Running in front of a ball carrier. A player must not intentionally move or stand in front of
a team-mate carrying ihe ba i thereby preventing opponents from tackling the current ball
carrier or rhe opportunity to tackle potential ball carriers when they gain possession.
Sanction: Penally kick
(c)	Blocking Ihe tackler. A player must not intentionally move or stand in a position that
prevents an opponent from tackling a ball earner
Sanction: Penally kick
(d)	Blocking the ball. A player must not intentionally move or stand in a position that prevents
an opponent from playing the ball.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(e)	Ball carrier running into team-mate. A player carrying the ball must not intentionally run
info team mares in front of that player
Sanction: Penalty kick
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
2016

10.2	UNFAIRPLAY
(a)	Intentionally Offending. A player must not intentionally infringe any Law of the C=~
play unfa fly. The player who intentionally offends must be either admonished, or ca.' -
that a send off will result if the offence or a similar offence is committed, or sent off.
Sanction: Penalty kick
A penalty try must be awarded if the offence prevents a try that would probably other• -
have been scored A player who prevents a try being scored through foul play must e ~
cautioned and temporarily suspended or sent off.
(b)	Time-wasting. A player must not intentionally waste time
Sanction: Ftee Kick
(c)	Throwing into touch. A player must not intentionally knock, place, push or throw the: -
with his arm or hand into touch, touch-in-goal, or over the dead ball line
Sanction: Penalty kick on the 15-metre line if the offence is between the 15 metre i -
the touchline. or. ar the place of infringement if the offence occured elsewhere in the f=-
of p'ay, or. 5 metres from the goal line and at least 15 metres from the touchline if ’he
infringement occured in in-goal.
A penalty try must be awarded if the offence prevents a try that would probably other- -
have been scored.
(d)	A player must not commit any act that may lead rhe match officials to consider that rhe
p ayer was subject to foul p’ay or any other type of infringement committed by an
opponent.
Sanction: Penalty kick
10.3	REPEATED INFRINGEMENTS _______
(a) Repeatedly offending. A p'ayer must not repeatedly infringe any Law. Repeated
infringement is a matter of fact. The question of whether or not the player intended to
infringe is irrelevant.
Sanction: Penalty kick
A player penalised for repeated infringements must be cautioned and temporarily
suspended
67 WORLD RUGBY
Law1O Foul Play
WORLD
RUGBY.
(b) Repeated infringements by the team. When different players of the same team
repeatedly commit the same offence, the referee must decide whether or not this amounts
to repeated infringement. If it does, the referee gives a general warning to the team and if
they then repeat the offence, the referee cautions and temporarily suspends the guilty
player(s)
Sanction: Penalty kick
A penalty fry must be awarded if the offence prevents a try that would probably otherwise
have been scored
(c)	Repeated infringements: standard applied by referee. When the referee decides how
many offences constitute repeated infringement, the referee must always apply a strict
standard in representative and senior matches. When a player offends three rimes the
referee must caution that player.
The referee may relax this standard in junior or minor matches, where infringements may
be the result of poor knowledge of the Laws or lack of skill.
10.11	DANGEROUS PLAY AND MISCONDUCT
(a) Punching or striking. A player must not strike an opponent with the fist or arm, including
the elbow, shoulder, head or knee(s)
Sanction: Penalty kick
(b) Stamping or trampling. A player must not stamp or trample on an opponent.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(c)	Kicking. A player must not kick an opponent.
Sanction: Penally kick
(d)	Tripping. A player must not trip an opponent with the leg or foot.
Sanction: Penalty kick
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
2016
68
Law 10 Foul Play
II
wot ID
RUGBY.
(e)	Dangerous tackling. A player must not tackle an opponent early. late or dangerous1)
Sanction: Penalty kick
A player must not tackle (or try to tackle) an opponent above the line of the shoulders e
if the tackle starts below the line of the shoulders. A tackle around the opponent’s neck "
head is dangerous p’ay
Sanction: Penalty kick
A ’stiff-arm tackle' is dangerous play. A player makes a stiff-arm tackle when using as’"
arm to strike an opponent.
Sanction: Penalty kick
Play.ng a player without the ball is dangerous play
Sanction: Penalty kick
A player must not tackle an opponent whose feet are off the ground.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(f)	Playing an opponent without the ball. Except In a scrum, ruck or maul, a player who n
not in possession of the ball must not hold, push or obstruct an opponent not carryng "
ball.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(g)	Dangerous charging. A player must not charge or knock down an opponent carrying r-:
ball without trying to grasp that p'ayer.
Sanction: Pena'ty kick
(n)	A player must not charge into a ruck or maul Charging includes any contact made wthaJ
use of the arms, or without grasping a player.
(i)	Tackling the jumper in the air. A player must not tackle nor tap. push or pull the foot :r
feet of an opponent jumping for the ball in a lineout or in open play.
Sanction: Pena.tykick
(j)	Lifting a player from the ground and dropping or driving that player into the ground wh .*
that player s feet are stOI off the ground such that the player’s head and/or upper body
come into contact with the ground is dangerous play.
Sanction: Penalty kick
69 WORLD RUGBY
Law1O Foul Play
(k)	Dangerous play in a scrum, ruck or maul. The front row of a scrum must not rush against
its opponents.
Sanction: Penally kick
Front row players must not intentionally lift opponents off their feet or force them upwards
out of the scrum.
Sanction: Penally kc<
Players must not charge into a ruck or maul without binding onto a player in the ruck or
maul.
Sanction: Pen .ty kick
Players must not intentionally collapse a scrum, ruck or maul.
Sanction: Pei ty kick
(I)	Retaliation A player must not retaliate. Even if an opponent is infringing the Laws, a player
must not do anything that is dangerous to the opponent
Sanction: Penalty kick
(m)	Acts contrary to good sportsmanship. A player must not do anything that is against the
spirit of good sportsmanship in the playing enclosure
Sanction: Penally kick
(n)	Misconduct while the ball is out of play. A player, must not, while the ball is out of play.
commit any misconduct, or obstruct or in any way interfere with an opponent.
Sanction: Penalty kick
The sanction is lhe same as for sections 10.k (a)-(m) except that the penalty kick is
awarded at the place where play would restart. If that place is on the touchline or within 15
metres of it. the mark for the penalty kick is on the 15-metre line, in line with that place
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
2016 1
70
Law 10 Foul Play
WORLD
RUGBY.
If p’ay would restart at a 5-metre scrum, the mark for the penalty kick is at that place of
scrum.
If play would restart with a drop out, the non-offending team may choose to take the
penalty kick anywhere on the 2 2-metre Ine
If a penally kick is awarded but the offending team is guilty o* further misconduct before
the kick is taken, the referee cautions or orders off the guilty p'ayer nd advances the ma <
for the penalty kick 10 metres. This covers both the original oftence and the misconduct
If a penalty kick is awarded to a team but a player of that team is guilty of further
msconduct before the kick is taken, the referee will caution or send-off the guilty p'ayer.
declare the kick disallowed, and award a penalty kick to the opposing team.
If an offence is committed outside the playing area while the ball is still in play, and if that
offence is not covered by any other part of this Law, the penalty kick is awarded on the 15
metre I ne. in Lne with where the offence happened.
(o)	late-charging the kicker. A player must not intentionally cnarge or obstruct an oppore'
who has just kicked the ball
Sanction: The non-offending team may choose to take the penalty kick either at the p
of infringement, where the ball lands or or where it was next played.
Place of infringement. If the infringement takes place in the kicker's in-goal, the pena‘f
luck is taken 5 metres from the goal line in line with the place of infringement but at leas?
15 metres from the touchline
The non-offending team may also choose to lake the penalty where the ball lands or is rec
played before landing and at least 15 metres from the touchline
Where the ball lands. If the ball lands in touch, the mark for the optional penalty «• ck is
the 15-metre fine, in line with where it went into touch. If the ball lands, or Is next played
before landing, within 15 metres of the touchline, the mark is on the 15 metre line cep?
where the ball landed or was played.
71 WORLD RUGBY
If the bail lands in the in goal, in touch in goal, or on or over the dead ball line, the mark for
the optional penalty kick is 5 metres from the goal line, in line with the place where the ball
crossed the goal line and at least 15 metres from the touchline.
If the ball hits a goal post or crossbar, the optional penally kick is awarded where the ball
lands on the ground.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
2016
woaio
RUGBY.
Law1O Foul Play
(p)	Hying Wedge and Cavalry Charge. A team must not use the Fly.ng Wedge’ or the Cc.; .
Charge’
Sanction: Penalty kick al the place of the original infringement.
•Flying Wedge'. The type of attack known as a 'Flying Wedge’ usually happens near tne
goal line. when the attacking team is awarded a penalty kick or free kick.
The kicker tapkicks the ball and starts the attack, either by driving towards the goal I necr
by passmg to a team-male who drives forward. Immediately, team males bind on eachsde
of the ba'I carrier in a wedge formation. Often one or more of these team males is in free
of the ball carrier. A ’Fly.ng Wedge’ is illegal.
Sanction: Penalty kick ar the place of the original infringemr
'Cavalry Charge’. The type of attack known as as a Cavalry Charge’ usually happens near
the goal line, when the attacking team is awarded a penalty kick or free kick. Either a sn£e
player stands some distance behind the kicker, or attacking players form a line across the
field some distance behind the kicker
These attacking players are usually a metre or two apart. At a signal from the kicker, they
charge forward. When they get near, the kicker tap-kicks the ball and passes to a playe< <':
had started some distance beh nd the kicker
Sanction: Penalty kick at the place of infringement
(q)	Advantage may be played for acts of foul play, but if the offence prevents a probable try i
penalty try must be awarded.
(r)	For an offence reported by an assistant referee a penalty kick may be awarded where the
offence occurred, or advantage may be played.
(s)	All players must respect the authority of the referee. They must not dispute the referee s
decisions. They must stop playing at once when the referee blows the whistle except a: a
kick-off or at a penalty kick following admonishment, temporary suspension, or send-off
Sanction: Penalty kick
73 WORLD RUGBY
Law1O Foul Play
WOtlD
RUGBY.
(a)	Any player who infringes any pari of the Foul Play Law must be admonished, or cautioned
and temporarily suspended for a period of ten minutes’ playing time, or sent off.
(o)	A player who has been cautioned and temporarily suspended who then commits a second
cautionable offence within the Foul Play Law must be sent-off.
10.6	YELLOW AND RED CARDS
(a)	When a player has been caut.oned and temporarily suspended in an International match
the referee will show that player a yellow card.
(b)	When a player has been sent off in an International match, the referee wiil show that player
a red card.
(c)	For other matches the Match Organiser or Union having Jurisdiction over the match may
decide upon the use of yellow and red cards.
10.7	PLAYER SENT OFF
A player who is sent-off takes no further part m the match.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
2016
7 <<
Law 11 Offside and Onside in General Play
wouo
RUGBY, J
DEFINITIONS
At the start of a game all players are onside. As the ma;
find themselves in an offside position. Such players arc
until they become onside again.
■sses players may
|e to be penalised

In general play a player is offside if the player Is in fronj
carrying the ball, or in front of a team-mate who last pt
Offside means that a player Is temporarily out of the g<
to be penalised if they take part In the game.
late who is
layers are liable -
In general play, a player can be put onside either by an c
an action of an opponent. However, the offside player |
offside player interferes with play, or moves forward, td
move 10 metres away from the place where the ball lar
team-mate or by
ut onside if the
ball, or falls to
’1.1 OFFSIDE IN GENERAL PLAY__________
(a) A player who is in an offside position is liable to sanction only if the player does one of litres
things.
• Interferes with play or.
• Moves forward. towards the ball or
• Fails to comply with the 10-Metre Law (Law 11 .*<).
A player who is in an offsde position is not automatically penalised
A player who rece.ves an unintentional throw forward is not offside
A player can be offside in the ingoal
(b) Offside and interfering with play. A player who is offside must not take part in the gam?
This means the p'ayer must nor play the ball or obstruct an opponent
(c) Offside and moving forward. When a team mate of an offside player has kicked ahead
the offside player must nor move towards opponents who are waiting to play the ball, or
move towards the place where the ball lands, until the player has been put onside
Sanction: When a player is penalised for beng offside in general play, the opposing tea”
chooses either a penalty kick at the place of infringement or a scrum at the place where re-
offending team last played the ball, if it was last played in that team’s m-goal. the scrum s
formed 5 metres from the goal line in line with where it was played
75 WORLD RUGBY
WOULD
RUGBY.
Law 11
Offside and Onside in General Play
Il 1.2 BEING PUT ONSIDE BY THE ACTION OF A TEAM-MATE
In general play, there are three ways by which an offside player can be put onside by actions
of that player or of team males.
(a)	Action by the player. When the offside player runs behind the team mate who last kicked.
touched or carried the ball, the player Is put onside
(b)	Action by the ball carrier. When a team mate carrying the ball runs in front of the offside
player, that player is put onside.
(c)	Action by the kicker or other onside player. When the kicker, or team mate who was
level with or behind the kicker when (or after) the ball was kicked, runs in front of the offside
player, the player is pul onside When running forward, the team mate may be in touch or
touch-in-goal, but that team-mate must return lo the playing area to put the player onside.
Offside player Team-mate with Team mate kicks, runs
runs behind ball ball runs ahead ahead or another onside
carrier team-mate runs ahead
Player made onside by team mate
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
76
Law 11 Offside and Onside in General Play
11.5	BEING PUT ONSIDE BY OPPONENTS	____________
In general play, there are three ways by which an offside player can be put onside by an
action of the oppos ng team. These three ways do not apply to a player who is offs*de
the 10-Metre Law
(a)	Runs 5 metres with ball. When an opponent carrying the ball runs 5 metres, the offs de
player is put onside
(b)	Kicks or passes. When an opponent kicks or passes the ba.'. the offside player is put
onside.
(c)	Intentionally touches ball. When an opponent intentionally touches the ball but does r -
catch it. the offside player is put onside
Yellow team -
direction of play
Blue team •
direction of play
Opponent runs Opponent kicks
five metres with or passes
ball
Opponent
intentionally
touches ball
Player put onside by opponents
77 WORLD RUGBY
WOULD
RUGBY.
Law 11 Offside and Onside in General Play
11.^ OFFSIDE UNDER THE 10-METRE LAW
(a)	When a ream-mare of an offside player has kicked ahead, rhe offside player is considered ro
be rakmg part in the game if the player is in front of an imaginary line across the field which
is 10 metres from the opponent waiting to play the ball, or from where the ball lands or may
land The offside player must immediately move behind the imaginary 10-metre l.ne or the
kicker if this is closer than 10 metres. While moving away, the player must nor obstruct an
opponent or interfere with play.
Sanction: Penj . Kick
(b)	While mov.ng away, the offside player cannot be put onside by any action of rhe opposing
team However, before the player has moved the full 10 metres, the player can be put
onside by any onside team-mate who runs in front of the player
(c)	When a player who is offside under the 10-Metre Law charges an opponent wailing to catch
the ball, the referee blows the whistle at once and the offside player is penal.sed. Delay may
prove dangerous to the opponent.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(d)	Wnen a player who is offside under the 10-metre Law plays the ball which has been
misfielded by an opponent, the offside player is penalised
Sanction: Penalty kick
(e)	The 10-metre Law is not altered by the fact that the ball has hit a goal post or a crossbar
What matters is where the ball lands. An offside player must not be in front of the imaginary
10-metre line across the field
Sanction: Penalty kick
(f)	The 10-metre Law does not apply when a player kicks the ball, and an opponent charges
down the kick, and a team mate of the kicker who was in front of the imaginary 10-metre
line across the field then plays the ball. The opponent was not "waiting to play the ball" and
the team-male is onside. The 10-metre Law appl es if the ball touches or is played by an
opponent but is not charged down
Sanction: When a player is penalised for being offside in general play, the opposing team
chooses either a penalty kick at the place of infringement or a scrum al the place where the
offending ream last played the ball. If it was last played In that team's in-goal. the scrum Is
formed 5 metres from the goal line in line with where it was played
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
2016
78
Law 11 Offside and Onside in General Play
WOULD
RUGBY.
(g)	If more than one player is offside and moving forward after a team male has kicked ctesC
the place of infringement is the position of the offside player closest to an opponent wa* ;
for the ball, or closest to where the ball lands.
11.5	BEING PUT ONSIDE UNDER THE 10-METRE LAW__________
(a) The offside player must retire behind the imaginary 10-melre line across the field.
otherwise the player is liable to be penalised
(b)	While retiring, the player can be put onside before moving behind lhe imaginary 10-metre
l.ne by any of the three actions of the player's team listed above in 11.2. However, the
player cannot be pul onside by any action of lhe opposing team
11.6	ACCIDENTAL OFESIDE IKK 2__
(a) When an offside p'ayer cannot avoid being touched by lhe ball or by a team mate carry;
it. the p'ayer is accidentally offside If the player's team gains no advantage from this. p'-=;
continues. If lhe player's team gains an advanlage. a scrum is formed with lhe opposing
team throwing in the ball.
(b) When a player hands the ball to a team-mate in front of the first player, the receiver is
offside. Unless the receiver is considered to be intentionally offside (in which case a peri .
kick is awarded), the receiver is accidentally offside and a scrum is formed with lhe
opposing team throwing in the ball
11.7	OFFSIDE AFTER A KNOCK-O!
When a player knockson and an offside team-mate next plays lhe ball, the offside player ts
fable to sanction if playing the ball prevented an opponent from gaming an advantage
Sanction: Penalty kick
79 WORLD RUGBY
Law 11 Offside and Onside in General Play
wo«io
RUGBY.
11.8	SCRUM OR LINEOUTPLAYER RETIRING DURING A RUCK'MAUL’
When a ruck, maul, scrum or lineout forms, a player who is offside and is retiring as required
by Law remains offside even when the opposing ream wins possession and the ruck. maul.
scrum or lineout has ended The player Is put onside by retiring behind the applicable
offside line. No other action of the offside player and no action of that player’s team males
can put the offside player onside.
If the player rema ns offside the player can be put ons;de only by the action of the opposing
team There are two such actions:
Opponent runs 5 metres with ball. When an opponeni carrying lhe bail has run 5 metres.
the offside player is put onside. An offside player is not put onside when an opponent
passes the ball Even if the opponents pass the ball several times, their action does nor put
the offside player onside
Opponent kicks. When an opponent kicks the ball, the offside p'ayer is put ons‘de
A player who remains in an offside position is loitering. A loiterer who prevents the opposing
team from playing the ball as they wish is taking part in the game, and is penalised. The
referee makes sure that the loiterer does not benefit from be.ng put onside by lhe opposing
team’s action
Sanction: Penalty kick at the offending player’s offside line
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
2016
80
n Mi
, RUGBY.
Law12 Knock-on orl

:orward

DEFINITION: KNOCK-ON
A knock-on occurs when a player loses posse
or when a player hits the ball forward with the.
the hand or arm and goes forward, and the ball t
player before the original player can catch it.
‘Forward* means towards the opposing team’s de
Sgy.
forward from th
it a player rips the ball or deliberately knocks theflB
and the ball goes forward from The ball carrier’s hai
EXCEPTION
Charge down. If a player charges down the ball as-
immediately after the kick, It is not a knock-on ever;
forward.

dl and It goes for*
jr when the ball hds
ground or another
»nt kicks It, or
ball may travel

Knock-on
81
WORLD RUGBY
Law 12 Knock-on or Throw Forward
DEFINITIOI

IOW FORWARD
A throw forward oc
the arms of the playc
ball line.
EXCEPTION
Bounce forwar
ground and boui
If) ■
WO«ID
RUGBY. XJR
RUGBY.
flayer throws or passes the ball forward, i.e. If
ball move towards the opposing team’s dead


(thrown forward but It hits a player or the
Is not a throw forward.
12.1	THE OUTCOME OF A KNOCK-ON OR THROW FORWARD
(a) Unintentional knock-on or throw forward. A scrum is awarded at the p’ace of
infringement.
(b) Unintentional knock-on or throw forward at a lineout. A scrum is awarded 15 metres
from the touchline
(c)	Knock-on or throw forward Into the in-goal. If an attack-ng player knocks-on or rh'Tas I
forward m the field of play and the ball goes into the opponents' in-goal and it is made oh?
there, a scrum is awarded where the knock-on or throw forward happened
(d)	Knock-on or throw forward Inside the in goal, if a p ayer of either team knocks-oncr
throwsforward inside the in goal, a 5-metre scrum is awarded in line with the place of I
infringement not closer than 5 metres from the touchline.
(e)	Knock-on or throw forward into touch. When the ball goes into touch from a knock-cr
or throw forward, the non-offending team will have the option of a lineout at the port the
ba'I crossed the touch line or a scrum at the place of the knock-on or throw forward, or a
quick throw in.
.0 Intentional knock or throw forward A player must nor intentionally knock the ba3
forward with hand or arm. nor throw forward.
Sanction: Penalty kick. A penalty try must be awarded if the offence prevents a fry that
would probably otherwise have been scored
83 WORLD RUGBY
During the match
Im the field of play
Laaw 13 Kick-off and Restart Kicks
Laaw 1 it Ball on the Ground - No Tackle
Laaw 15 Tackle: Ball Carrier Brought to Ground
laaw 16 Ruck
laaw 17 Maul
laaw 18 Mark
0)
WORLD
RUGBY,

Law 13 Kick-off and Restart Kicks
RUGBY.
DEFINITIONS
The kick-off occurs at the start of each half of the match and at the beginning of
each period of extra time. Restart kicks occur after a score or a touch down.
13.1 WHERE AND HOW THE KICK-OFF IS TAKEN
(a) A team kicks off with a drop kick which must be taken at or behind the centre of tne ha f
way line.
(b) If the ball is kicked off by the wrong type of kick, or from the incorrect place, the opposrg
team has two choices:
• To have the ball kicked off again, or
• To have a scrum ar the centre of the half way line and they throw in the ball.
(a)
(b)
.3,2 WHO TAKES THE KICK-Qf______
At the start of the game, rhe team whose captain elected to take rhe kick after winning • e
toss will kick off. or the opposing team if the winning captain elected to choose an end
After the half time interval, the opponents of the ream who kicked off at rhe start of the
game kick off
(0
After a score the opponents of the team who scored restart play.
13.3 POSITION OF THE KICKER’S TEAM AT A KICK-OFF
All the kicker’s team must be behind the ball when it is kicked. If they are not, a scrum 6
formed at the centre Their opponents throw in the ball.
85 WORLD RUGBY
Law 13 Kick-off and Restart Kicks
RUGBY.
1 3 A POSITION OF THE OPPOSING TEAM AT A KICK-OFF
All the opposing team must stand on or behind the 1 0-metre line If they are in front of that
Lne or if they charge before the ball is kicked, it is kicked off again.
13.5 KICK-0		10 METRES	J
If the ball reaches the opponents' 10 metre line or reaches the 10 metre line and is blown
back, play continues.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 86
WOBlD
RUGBY.
Law 13 Kick-off and Restart Kicks
'ED BY AN OPPONI
If the ball does not reach the opponent s 10-metre line but is first played by an oppcn?"
play continues.
137 ^XFENTFUNDER1°METRESANj
If the ball does not reach the opponent s 10 rnette line the opposing team has tv.o chocs
• To have the ball kicked off again, or
• To have a scrum at the centre of the half-way line and they throw in the ball
[ 13.8 BALL GOES DIRECTLY INTO TOU

The ball must land in the field of play If it is kicked directly into touch the opposing rea^'t
three choices:
• To nave me ball kicked off again, or
• To have a scrum at the centre and they have the throw-in, or
• To accept the kick.
If they accept the kick, the lineout is on the half way line If the ball is blown behind the rar
way line and goes directly into touch, the lineout is at the place where it went into touch
(a) if the ball is kicked into the opponents’ in-goal without having touched or been touchedfr ■
player, the opposing team has three choices
•To ground the ball, or
• To make it dead, or
•To play on.
87 WORLD RUGBY
Law 13 Kick-off and Restart Kicks
WO«LO
RUGBY.
(b)	If the opposing team grounds the ball, or if they make it dead, or if the ball becomes dead
by going into fouchin-goal, or on or over the dead ball line, they have two choices:
• To have a scrum formed at the centre, and they throw in the ball, or
• To have the other team kick off again.
(c)	If they opt to ground the ball or make it dead, they must do so without delay Any other
action with the bal; by a defending player means the player has elected to play on.
(d)	If the ball does not travel ten metres and ends up m the kicking team's in-goal and
• if is made dead by a defending player, or
• the ball goes into touch m goal, or
• lands on or over the dead ball line;
a 5-metre scrum is awarded and the attacking team throw in.
13.10 DROP-OUT
DEFINITIONS
. A drop-out is a drop kick taken by the defending team. The drop out may be taken
. anywhere on or behind the 22-metre line.
. A drop out Is used to restart play after an attacking player has put or taken the ball
i Into the in-goal, without Infringement, and a defending player has made the ba
«dead there or It has gone into touch-in-goal or on or over the dead ball line.
13.11	DELAY IN DROP-OUT
The drop-out must be taken without delay.
Sanction’____ck on the 22-met
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
2016 1
88
V.O»LD
RUGBY.
Law 13 Kick-off and Restart Kicks
13.12	DROP-OUT INCORRECTLY TAKEI
If the ba.l is kicked w.th the wrong type of kick, or from the wrong place, the opposng
has two choices*
• To have another drop-out. or
• To has e a scrum at the centre of the 2 2 -metre line and the/ throw in the ball
13.13	DROP-OUT MUST CROSS THE LINE
(a)	If the ball does not cross the 22-metre line, the opposing team has two choices.
• To have another drop-out. or
• To have a scrum at the centre of the 22-metre line. They throw m the bal
(b)	If the ba l crosses the 22-metre line but is blown back, play continues.
(c)	If the ball does not cross the 22-metre line, advantage may apply An opponent Aho f
the ba’I can score a try.
13.1*1 DROP-OUT GOES DIRECTLY INTO TOl	_________
The ball must land in the field of play. If it is kicked directly into touch, the opposng re: '
has three choices:
• To have another drop-out. or
• To have a scrum at the centre of the 22-metre line, and they throw in the ba’I, or
• To accept the kick. If tney accept the kick, the throw-in is on the 22-metre bne.
89 WORLD RUGBY
Law 13 Kick-off and Restart Kicks
WORLD
RUGBY.
GOES INTO THE OPPONENTS’ IN-GOAL
(a)	If lhe ball is kicked into the opponents' in-goal without hav ng touched or been touched by a
player, the opposing team has three choices:
• To ground the ball, or
• To make it dead, or
• To play on.
(b)	If the opposing team grounds lhe ball, or makes it dead, or if the ba'I becomes dead by
going into touch-in-goal or on or over the dead bail line, they have two choices:
• To have a scrum formed at lhe centre of the 22-metre line from where the kick was taken
and they throw in lhe ball, or
• To have the other team drop out again
(c)	If they opt to ground the ball or make it dead, they must do so without delay. Any other
action with the ball by a defending player means the player has elected to play on.
13.16	THE KICKER’S TEAM
(a)	All the kicker's team must be behind lhe ball when it is kicked. If not. a scrum is formed at
the centre of the 22-metre line The opposing team throws in lhe ba'I
(b)	However, if lhe kick is taken so quickly that players of the kicker's team who are retiring are
still in front of the ball, they will not be penalised They must not stop retiring until they have
been made onside by an action of a team mate They must not lake part in the game until
they have been made onside in this way.
Sanction: Scrum at the centre of the 22-metre line. The opposing team throws in the ball.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
2016
Law 13 Kick-off and Restart Kicks
________________________________________
WO* ID
RUGBY.
13.17 THE OPPOSING TEAM
(a) The opposing ream must not chargeover the 22-metre line before the ball is kicked
Sanction: Free kick, at rhe p ace of infringement
(b) If an opponent is on the wrong side of the 22-metre line and delays or obstructs ’bed —-
out. the player is gu-lty of misconduct
Sanction: Penalty kick on the 22-metre line


91 WORLD RUGBY
Law 14 Ball on the Ground - No Tackle
WOULD
RUGBY.
it Immediately after a scrum or a ruck.
n the ground In possession of the ball and has not
DEFINITlOh
This situation occurs wjhpn f®ball Is available on the ground and a player goes to
ground to gather tha;
It also occurs when a |
been tackled.

The Game is to be pl
the ball unplayable t
immediately avallan
A player who makes
falling down, is nega
penalised.
A player who Is nol
player who goes tc
ers who are on their feet. A player must not make
in. Unplayable means that the ball Is not
►am so that play may continue.
^able, or who obstructs the opposing team by
ise and Spirit of the Game and must be
‘2
.■a
io goes to ground while holding the ball, or a
rhers the ball, must act immediately.
JND
(a) A p'ayer with the bail must immediately do one of three things.
•Get up with the ball
• Pass the ball
•Release the ball
Sanction: Penalty kick
(b) A player who passes or releases the ball must also get up or move away from it at once
Sanction: Penalty kick
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
2016
92
Law 14
Ball on the Ground - No Tackle
(c)	A player without the ball must not he on. over, or near the ball to prevent opponents genrf
possession of it.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(d)	A p'ayer on the ground must not tackle or attempt to tackle an opponent.
Sanction: Penalty kick
1<i.2 PLAYERS ON THEIR FEET
(a) Falling over the player on the ground with the ball. A player must not infennona f
on or over a player with the ball who is lying on the ground
Sanction: Penalty kick
(o) Falling over players lying on the ground near the ball. A player must not intent.ona . -
on or over players lying on the ground with the ball between them or near them.
Sanction: Penalty kick
93 WORLD RUGBY
WORLD
RUGBY.
Law 15 Tackle: Ball Carrier Brought to Ground
DEFINITIONS
A tackle occurs when the ball carrier is held by one or more opponents and is
brought to ground.
A ball carrier who is not held is not a tackled player and a tackle has not taken
place
Opposition players who-hold,the ball carrier and bring that player to ground, and
who also go to ground; are known as tacklers.
Opposition players who.hotd^he ball carrier and do not go to ground are not
tacklers.
Tackle
115.1	WHERE CAN A TACKLE TAKE PLACE
A tackle can only fake place in the field of play
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
2016
9*<
WORLD
RUGBY.

15.2 WHEN A TACKLE CANNOT TAKE PLACf
When the ball earner is held by one opponent and a team-mate of the ball carrier b nds
to that ba'I carr.er. a maul has been formed and a tackle cannot take place.
153 BROUGHT TO THE GROUND DEFII______
i
(a)	If the ba'I carrier has one knee or both knees on the ground, that player has been 'txou^' ’
to grouno’.
(b)	If the ball carrier is sitting on the ground, or on top of another player on the ground the b=
carrier has been brought to ground’
15.A THE TACKLER

(a)	When a player tackles an opponent and they both go to ground, the tackler must
immed ately release the tackled player
Sanction: Penalty kick
(b)	The tackler must immediately get up or move away from the tackled player and rem tn.
ball at once
Sanction: Penalty kick
(c)	The tackler must get up before playing the ball and then may play the ball from any
direction.
Sanction: Penalty kick
15.5 THE TACKLED PLAYER
(a)	A tackled player must not he on. over, or near the ball to prevent opponents from gain ng
possession of it. and must try to make the ball available immediately so that p’ay can con' nue
Sanction: Penalty kick
(b)	A tackled player must immediately pass the ball or release it That player must a so get -
move away from it at once
Sanction: Penally kick
95 WORLD RUGBY
WORLD
RUGBY.
Law 15 Tackle: Ball Carrier Brought to Ground
(c)	A tackled player may release the ball by putting it on the ground in any direction, provided
this is done immediately
Sanction: Penalty kick
(d)	A tackled p'ayer may release the ball by pushing it along the ground in any direction except
forward, provided this is done immediately.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(e)	If opposition players who are on their feet attempt to play the ball, the tackled p'ayer must
release the ball
Sanction: Penair, Rick
Tackled player must release the ball immediately
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
2016
96
RUGBY.
Law 15 Tackle: Ball Carrier Brought to Ground
(0 If a tackled player’s momentum carries the player into ihe m-goal. the player can scores-
or make a touch down.
(g)	If a player is tackled near the goal line, that player may immediately reach out and grorc
tne bail on or over the goal line to score a try or make a touch down
A player tackled near the goal line can reach out
and ground the ball to score a try
15.6	OTHER PLAYERS
(a)	After a tackle, all other players must be on their feet when they play the ball. Players a'? o*
the.r feet if no other part of their body is supported by the ground or players on the grw -
Sanction: Penalty kick
Exception: Bail goes into the in-goal. After a tackle near the goal line, if the bail has be:"
released and has gone into the in-goal any player, including a player on rhe ground, m?,
ground the ball.
97 WORLD RUGBY
Law 15 Tackle: Ball Carrier Brought to Ground
RUGBY
After a tackle all of the players must be on their feet
when they play the ball
Player off his feet and playing the ball at the tackle
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
2016
wo»io
RUGBY.
Law 15 Tackle: Ball Carrii

ight to Ground
Player off feet and playing the ball at the tackle
(b)	After a tackle any players on their feel may attempt to gain possession by taking the ba'
from the ball carrier's possession.
(c)	Players in oppos lion to the ball carrier who remain on their feet who bring the ball came* *:
ground so that the player is tackled must release the ball and the ball carrier Those players
may then play the ball providing they are on their feet and do so from behind the ba’I and
from directly behind the tackled player or a tackier closest to those players' goal line.
Sanction: Penally kick
(d)	At a tackle or near to a tackle, other players who play the ball must do so from beh nd tne
bah and from directly behind the tackled player or the tackler closest to those players' goa
fine
Sanction: Penalty kick
99 WORLD RUGBY
Law 15 Tackle: Ball Carrier Brought to Ground
WORLD
RUGBY.
(e)	Any player who gains possession of rhe ball at the tackle must play the ball immediately by
moving away or passing or kicking the ball
Sanction: Penaity kick
(f)	Any player who first gams possession of the ball must nor go to the ground at the tackle or
near to it unless tackled by an opposition player
Sanction: Penalty kick
(g)	Any player who first gams possession of the ball at the tackle or near to it may be tackled by
an opposition p'ayer providing that player does so from behind the ball and from directly
behind the tackled player or the tackler closest to that player'sgoal line
Sanction: Pena
(h)	After a tackle, any player lying on the ground must not prevent an opponent from getting
possession of the ball.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(i)	After a tackle, any player on the ground must not tackle an opponent or try to tackle an
opponent.
Sanction: Penalty kick
G) When a tackled player reaches out to ground the ball on or over the goal line to score a try.
an opponent may pull the ball from the player's possession, but must not kick or attempt to
kick the ball.
Sanction: Penalty kick
15.7	FORBIDDEN PRACTICES
(a)	No player may prevent the tackled player from passing the ball
Sanction: Penalty kick
(b)	No player may prevent the tackled player from releasing the ball and getting up or moving
away from it.
Sanction: Penalty kick
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
2016
100
(0 No player may fall on or over the players lying on the ground after a tackle with the ba’*
between or near to them.
Sanction: Penalty kick
No player may fall on or over a tackled player
(d)	Players on their feet must not charge or obstruct an opponent who is not near the ba!
Sanction: Penalty kick
(e)	Danger may arise if a tackled player fails to release the ball or move away from it
immediate.'/, or if that player is prevented from so doing. If either of these happens me
referee awards a penalty kick immediately
Sanction: Penalty kick
15.8	DOUBT ABOUT FAILURE TO COMPLY
If the ball becomes unplayable at a tackle and there is doubt about which player d d not
conform to Law. the referee orders a scrum immediately with the throw-in by the team th*
..as moving forward prior to the stoppage or, if no team was moving forward, by the
attacking team.
101 WORLD RUGBY
16.1	FORMING A RUCK
(a)	Where can a ruck take place. A ruck can take place only m the field of play
(b)	How can a ruck form. Players are on their feet At least one player must be in physical
contact with an opponent. The ball must be on the ground If the ball is off the grard for
any reason, the ruck is not formed
L 16.2 JQININGARUCK
7T
(a)	All players forming, joining or taking part in a ruck must have their heads and shoulders no
lower than their h ps.
Sanction: Frc-e Kick
(b)	A player joining a ruck must bind on a team mate or an opponent, using the who'e arm. The
b nd must either precede, or be simultaneous with, contact with any other part of the bee,
of the player joining the ruck.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(c)	Placing a hand on another player in the ruck does not constitute binding.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(d)	All players forming. |O ning or taking part in a ruck must be on their feet
Sanction: Penalty kick
16.3	RUCKING
(a)	Players in a ruck must endeavour to stay on their feet
Sanction: Penalty kick
(b)	A player must not intentionally fall or kneel in a ruck This Is dangerous play
Sanction: Penalty kick
(c)	A player must not intentionally collapse a ruck. This is dangerous play.
Sanction: Penalty kick
103 WORLD RUGBY
(d)	A player must not jump on top of a ruck.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(e)	Players must have their heads and shoulders no lower than their hips.
Sanction. Fr«
(f)	A player rucking for the ball must not intentionally ruck players on the ground. A player
rucking for the ball must try to step over players on the ground and must nor intentionally
step on them. A player rucking must do so near the ball.
Sanction: Per. . Me-
(a)	Players must nor return the ball into a ruck.
Sanction: Fr<=
(b)	Players must nor handle the ball in a ruck except after a tackle if they are on their feet and
have their hands on the ball before the ruck is formed.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(c)	Players must not pick up the ball in a ruck with their legs
Sanction: Penalty kick
(d)	Players on the ground in or near the ruck must try to move away from the ball. These
players must not interfere with the ball in the ruck or as it comes out of the ruck.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(e)	A player must not fall on or over the ball as it is coming out of a ruck.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(f)	A player must not take any action to make the opposing team think that the ball is out of
the ruck while it is still in the ruck.
Sanction: Free Kick
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
2016
10^
16.5	OFFSIDE AT THE RUCK
(a)	The offside line. There are two offside lines parallel to t he goal lines, one for each team
Each offside line runs through the hindmost foot of the hindmost p'ayer in the ruck. If re
hmdmost fool of the hindmost player is on or behind the goal line, the offside l.ne for the
defending team is the goal line
(b)	Players must either join a ruck, or retire behind the offside line immediately. If a player
loiters at the side of a ruck, the player is offside.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(c)	Players joining or rejoining the ruck. A player joining a ruck must do so from beh nd r e
foot of the hindmost team-male in the ruck. A player may join alongside this hindmost
player. If a player joins the ruck from the opponents' side, or in front of the hindmost team-
mate. the player is offside. A player may bind onto an opposition player prov-ding the piayB
is not otherwise offside
Sanction: Pena-ty kick on the offending team's offside line
Ata ruck or maul, the offside line runs through the
mdmost foot of the player of the same team. The player in
the yellow jersey on the right hand side is offside.
105 WORLD RUGBY
Law 16 Ruck
WOPLO
RUGBY.
(d)	Players not joining the ruck. If a player is in front of the offside line and does not join the
ruck, the player must retire behind the offside line at once. If a player who is behind the
offside line oversteps it and does not join the ruck the player is offside
Sanction: Penalty kick on the offending team’s offside line
16.6	SUCCESSFUL END TO A RUCK
A ruck ends successfully when the ball leaves the ruck, or when the bail is on or over the goal
line
D TO A RUCK
(a)	A ruck ends unsuccessfully when the ball becomes unplayable and a scrum is ordered
Tne team that was moving forward immediately before the ball became unplayable in the
ruck throws in rhe ball.
If neither team was moving forward, or if the referee cannot decide which team was moving
forward before the ball became unplayable in the ruck, the team that was moving forward
before the ruck began throws in the ball.
If neither team was moving forward, then the attacking team thrcr.vs in the ball.
(d) Before the referee blows the whistle for a scrum, the referee allows a reasonable amount of
time for the ball to emerge, especially if either team is moving forward If the ruck slops
moving, or if the referee decides that the ball will probably not emerge within a reasonable
rime, the referee must order a scrum
(c)	When the ball has been clearly won by a team at a ruck and the ball is available to be played
the referee will call ‘Use it1' after which the ball must be played within five seconds. If the
ball is nor played within five seconds the referee will award a scrum and the learn nor in
possession of the ball at the ruck is awarded the throw-in.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
2016
106
V.-O51D
RUGBY.
Law 17 Maul
DEFINITIONS

A maul begins when a player carrying the ball Is
and one or more of the ball carrier’s team mate*
therefore consists, when it begins, of at least tht
ball carrier and one player from each team. All tl
in or bound to the maul and must be on their fe<
Open play has ended.
(or more opponents.
e ball earner. A mad
all on their feet; the
Evolved must be eati-
ng towards a goal bne
Maul
107 WORLD RUGBY
ILaw17 Maul
WO«LO
RUGBY.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
2016
108
WORLD
RUGBY.
Law 17 Maul
17.1	FORMING A MAUL
(a)	Where can a maul take place. A maul can only lake place in The field of play.
17.2	JOINING AMAUL .-J
(a)	Players joining a maul must have their heads and shoulders no lower than their hips.
Sanction: Free lOck
(o) A player must be caught in or bound to the maul and not just alongside it.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(c)	Placing a hand on another player in the maul does not constitute binding.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(d)	Keeping players on their feet. Players in a maul must endeavour to stay on their feet H
ball carrier in a maul may go to ground providing the ball is available immediately and pa
continues.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(e)	A player must not intentionally collapse a maul. This is dangerous play.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(f)	A player must nor jump on top of a maul
Sanction: Penalty kick
173 other
(a) A player must not fry to drag an opponent out of a maul
Sanction: Penalty kick
(b)	A player must nor take any action to make the opposing team think that the ball is out of
rhe maul while it is still in the maul
Sanction: Free Kick
109 WORLD RUGBY
Law 17 Maul
WORLD
RUGBY.
17.4 OFFSIDE AT THE MAUL
(a) The offside line. There are two offside lines parallel ro the goal lines, one for each ream
Each offside line runs through the hindmost foot of the hindmost player in the maul. If the
h-ndmost foot of the hindmost player is on or behind the goal line, the offs de line for the
defending team is the goal line.
(b)	A player must either join a maul, or retire behind the offside line immediately. If a player
loiters at the side of a maul, the player is offside.
Sanction: Penalty k.ck on the offending team’s offside line
(c)	Players joining the maul. Players joining a maul must do so from behind the foot of the
hindmost team mate in the maul. The player may join alongside this player. If the player
joins the maul from the opponents’ side, or in front of the hindmost team mate, the player
is offside.
Sanction: Per c\;: ■ un the offending team’s offside line
(d)	Players not joining the maul. All players in front of the offside line and who do not join th
maul, must retire behind the offside line at once A player who does not do so. is offside. If
any player who is behind rhe offside line oversteps it and does not join the maul, the player
is offside.
Sanction: Penalty kick on the offending team's offside line
(e)	Players leaving or rejoining the maul. Players who leave a maul must immediately retire
behind the offside line, otherwise, they are offs'de. If the player rejoins the maul in front of
the hindmost team-mate in the maul, they are offside. The player may rejOin the maul
alongside the hindmost team mate
Sanction: Penalty kick on the offending ream’s offside line
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
2016
110
WORLD
rugby.
Law 17 Maul
(0 When p ayers of rhe team who are nor in possession of rhe ball in the maul votuntariy «
the maul such that there are no players of that team left in the maul, the maul may
continue and there are two offside lines. The offside line for the team in possession runs
through the hindmost foot of the hindmost player in the maul and for the team not n
possession it is a line that runs through the foremost foot of the foremost player of the
team in possession at the maul.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(g)	When p'ayers of the team who are not in possession of the ball in the maul voluntarfy
the maul such that there are no p’ayers of that team left m the maul, players of that tec-
may rejoin the maul providing that the first p'ayer binds on the foremost player of the tec-
in possession of the ball.
Sanction: Penalty kick
__________________
17.5	SUCCESSFUL END TO A MAUL______
A maul ends successfully when.
• the ball or a player with the ball leaves the maul
• the ball is on the ground
• the ball is on or over the goal line.
_________________
17.6	UNSUCCESSFUL END TO A MAUL	________________
(a)	A maul ends unsuccessfully If it remains stationary or has stopped moving forward for
longer than 5 seconds and a scrum is ordered.
(b)	A maul ends unsuccessfully if the ball becomes unplayable or collapses (not as a resu t of
foul play) and a scrum is ordered.
11 WORLD RUGBY
Law 17 Maul
WORLD
RUGBY.
(c)	Scrum following maul. The ball is thrown m by the team not in possession when the maul
began. If the referee cannot decide which team had possession, the team moving forward
before the maul stopped throws in the ball. If neither team was moving forward, the
attacking ream throws in the ball.
(d)	When a maul remains stationary or has stopped moving forward for more than 5 seconds.
but the ball is being moved and the referee can see it. a reasonable time is allowed for the
ball to emerge If it does not emerge within a reasonable time, a scrum is ordered.
(e)	When a maul has stopped moving forward it may start moving forward aga n providing if
does so within 5 seconds. If the maul stops mov.ng forward a second time and if the ball is
being moved and the referee can see it, a reasonable time is allowed for the ball to emerge.
If it does not emerge within a reasonable time, a scrum is ordered.
(f)	When the ball in a maul becomes unplayable, the referee does not allow prolonged
wrestling for it. A scrum is ordered.
(g)	If the ball carrier in a maul goes to ground, including being on one or both knees or sitting.
the referee orders a scrum unless the ball is immediately avat'able.
When the ball is available to be played the referee will call 'Use if after which the ball must
be played within five seconds If the ball is not played within five seconds the referee will
award a scrum and the team not in possession of the ball is awarded the throw-in.
(h)	Scrum after a maul when catcher is held. If a player catches the ball direct from an
opponent's kick, except from a kick off or a drop-out. and the player is immediately held by
an opponent, a maul may form Then if the maul remains stationary, stops mov.ng forward
for longer than 5 seconds, or if the ball becomes unplayable, and a scrum is ordered, the
team of the ball catcher throws in the ball
'Direct from an opponent's kick’ means the ball did not touch another player or the ground
before the player caught it.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
112
Law 18 Mark
DEFINITIONS
To make a mark, a player must be on or behind tl
player with one foot on the 22-metre line or beh
22*. The player must make a clean catch direct ft
same time shout "Mark". A mark cannot be madi
except for a drop-out.
A kick is awarded for a mark. The place for the kl
A player may make a mark even though the ball
before being caught.
A player from the defending team may make a n
2-metrellne.A
jered to be‘In the
lent’s kick and at the
off, ora restart kick
■ of the mark.
<l post or crossbar
115 WORLD RUGBY
Law 18 Marl
WORLD
RUGBY.

18.1	AFTER A MARK
The referee immediately blows the whistle and awards a kick to the player who made the
mark.
The kick is awaroed at the place of the mark. If the mark is made in the ingoal. the kick is
awarded 5 metres from tne goal line in line with where the mark was made.
&
The kick is taken by the player who made the mark. If that player cannot take the kick wilhir
one minute, a scrum is formed at the place of the mark with the ball thrown in by the
player's team If the mark is in the in goal, the scrum is 5 metres from the goal line, on a line
The kick is taken ar or behind rhe mark on a line through the mark.
through the mark.
18.5	HOWTHE KICK IS TAKEN
The provisions of Law 21 • Free Kicks apply to a kick awarded after a mark.
LAWS OF THE CAME RUGBY UNION
2016 I
11<<
(b)	Where the scrum is. If the mark Is in the field of p'ay. the scrum is at the p'ace of me mart.
but at least 5 metres from the touchline. If the mark is in-goal. the scrum is 5 metres from
the goal line on a line through the mark, and ar least 5 metres from the touchline.
(c)	Who throws in. The team of the player who made the mark throws in the ball
18.7	PENALTY KICK AWARDED	_______
(a)	An opponent, whether onside or offside, must not charge a player who has made a mil
after the referee has blown the whistle
Sanction: Penalty kick
(b)	Where the penalty kick is taken. If the infringing player is onside, the penalty kckisra*s«
at the place of the infringement If the infringing player is offside, the penalty kick is taken af
the place of the offside line (Law 11 offside and onside m General Play)
(c)	The penalty kick. Any player from the non offending team may lake the penally kZk.
115 WORLD RUGBY
During the match
I Restarts
[Law 19 Touch and Lineout
[Law 20 Scrum
[Law 21 Penalty and Free Kicks
WORLD
RUGBY,
Law 19 Touch and Lineout
hr angles to the
id it touches the
ito touch without
r the referee
DEFINITIONS
'Kicked directly Into touch’ means that the ba
landing on the playing area, and without touc
‘The 22' is the area between the goal line and 1
metre line but excluding the goal line.
The line of touch is an imaginary line In the fie
touchline through the place where the ball is t
The ball is in touch when It is not being carried b
touchline or anything or anyone on or beyond th
The ball Is In touch when a player Is carrying it andlf^E ^carrier (or the ball)
touches the touchline or the ground beyond the touchline. The place where the
ball carrier (or the ball) touched or crossed the touchllneJ&Where it went Into
touch.
The ball is In touch if a player catches the ball and that player has a foot on the
touchline or the ground beyond the touchline. If a player has one foot in the field
of play and one foot in touch and holds the ball, the ball Is in touch.
If the ball crosses the touchline or touch-ln-goal line, and Is caught by a player who
has both feet In the playing area, the ball Is not in touch or touch-ln-goal. Such a
player may knock the ball into the playing area.
If a player jumps and catches the ball, both feet must land In the playing area
otherwise the ball is in touch or touch-ln-goal.
A player in touch may kick or knock the ball, but not hold It, provided it has not
crossed the plane of the touchline. The plane of the touchline is the vertical space
rising immediately above the touchline.
117 WORLD RUGBY
Law 19 Touch and Lineout
(1)
woaiD
RUGBY.
19.1	THRO
I NO GAIN IN GROU
(a)	Outside a team’s 22, a team member kicks directly Into touch. E*cept for a pena ry
kick, when a player an /.-.here in the field of play who is outside the 22 kicks directly into
touch, there is no gam m ground The throw in is taken either at the p'ace opposite where
the player kicked the ba’l. or ar the place where it went into touch, whichever is nearer that
player's goal line
(b)	When a team causes the ball to be put Into their own 22. When a defending player
plays the ball from outS’de the 22 and it goes into that p’ayer's 22 or in goal area without
touching an oppose on player and then that player or another player from that ream kicks
the ball directly into touch before it touches an opposition player, or a tackle takes place or a
ruck or maul is formed, there is no gam in ground. This applies when a defending player
moves back behind the 2 2 metre line to take a quick throw-in and then the ball is kicked
directly into touch
(c)	If a player with one or both feel inside the 22 metre line, picks up the ball which was
stationary outside the 22 metre line and kicks it directly info touch, then the player has
taken the ball back inside the 22-metre line, so there is no gam in ground
(d)	Defending team takes ball into their own 22 at a scrum or lineout. When a defending
team throws the ball into a scrum or lineout outside that team's 22 and the ball then
crosses into the team's 22 w.thout touching an opposition player and then a player from
the defending team kicks the ball directly into touch before it touches an opposition player.
or a tackle lakes place or a ruck or maul is formed, there is no gain in ground
GaAIN IN GROUND
(e)	If a player with one or both feet inside the 22 metre line, picks up the ball which was in
motion outside I he 2 2 metre line, and kicks it directly Into touch from within the 2 2 metre
area, the throw-in is where the ball went into touch.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
2016
118
Law 19 Touch and I
kl)
WORLD
RUGBY.
(0 Player takes ball into their own 22. When a defending player plays the ball fromout^df
the 22 and it goes into that player's 22 or in-goal area and it touches an opposition
or a tackle takes place or a ruck or maul is formed and then rhe ball is kicked by a player c
that team directly into touch, rhe throw-in is where the ball went into touch.
(g)	Ball put into a player’s 22 by the opposition. When the ball is put into a team’s 22 by r-_
opposition, without having touched (or been touched by) a player of the defending team
before crossing the 22 and the ball is then kicked into touch by the defending team, the
throw-in is where the ball went into touch.
119 WORLD RUGBY
Law 19 Touc

(h)	Kicks indirectly into touch. When a player anywhere in lhe p'ay ng area kicks indirectly
into touch so that the ball bounces in the field of play the throw-in is taken where the ball
went Into touch
When a player anywhere in the playing area kicks the ball so that it touches or is touched by
an opposition player and then goes indirectly into touch so that lhe ball bounces in the field
of play the throw-in is taken where the ball went info touch.
When a player anywhere in the playing area kicks the ball so that it touches or is touched by
an opposition player and then goes directly into touch the throw in is taken in line with
where the opposition player touched lhe ball or where the ball crossed the touchl ne if that
is nearer the opposition player's goal line
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
r 2016 1
120
RUGBY.
Law 19 Touch and Lineout
Touch & throw-in
121 WORLD RUGBY
Law 19 Touch and Lineout
WORLD
RUGBY.
PENALTY KICK
(i)	Penally kick. When a p'ayer kicks to touch from a penalty kick anywhere in the play.ng
area, the throw-in is taken where the ball went into touch.
FREEKICK
(j)	Outside the kicker’s 22, no gain in ground. When a free kick awarded outside the 22
goes directly into touch, the throw-in is in line with where the ball was kicked, or where it
went info touch, whichever is nearer the kicker's goal line
(k)	Inside the kicker's 22 or in-goal, gain in ground. When a free kick is awarded In the 22 or
in goal and the kick goes directly into touch, the throw-in is where the ball went into touch
19.2	QUICKTl
« J
(a)	A player may take a quick throw-in without waiting for a lineout to form.
(b)	For a quick throw in. the player may be anywhere outside the field of play between the place
where the ball would be thrown in from a formed lineout and the player's goal line
(c)	A player must not take a quick throw-in after the lineout has formed If the player does, the
quick throw-in is disallowed The same team throws in at the lineout.
(d)	For a quick throw-in, the player must use the ball that went into touch A quick throw-in is
not permitted if another person has touched the ba'J apart from the player throwing it in
and an opponent who carried it into touch The same team throws into the lineout
(e)	An incorrect quick throw-in occurs when:
• The ball is thrown towards the opponents goal line, or
• The ball is thrown in ahead of the line of touch, or
• The ball is thrown in on or behind the goal line, or
• Tha ball touches the ground or a player before reaching the 5 metre line, or
• The thrower steps into the field-of-play when throwing the ball
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
r 2016 1
Law 19 Touch and Lineout
The opposng team s choices are to elect to throw in at either
• a Imeout where the quick throw was attempted, or
• a scrum on the 15-metre line at that place
If they. too. throw in the ball incorrectly ar the lineout, a scrum is formed on the 15 metre
line. The team that first threw in the ball throws .n the ball ar the scrum
(f)	At a quick throw-in a fa,?
may throw the ball n sna
along the line of to.cn ex
towards that payer's go£
line.
(g)	At a quick throw-in. a play?
may come to the Lne of
touch and leave without
being penalised
(h)	At a quick throw m. a pa,?
must not prevent thebal
being thrown in 5 metres
Sanction: Free K'ckc- "5
metre lne
(i)	If a player carrying the ba’ ‘
forced into touch, that
must release the bal toar-
oppositton player so mat
there can be a quick threw r
Sanction: Pena'ry kdon IS
metre line
Quick throw-in
123 WORLD RUGBY
WORLD
RUGBY.
Law 19 Touch and Lineout
19.3	OTHER THROW INS
On all other occasions, the throw in is taken where the ball went into touch.
19.9	WHO THROWS IN
(a)	The throw in is taken by an opponent of the player who last held or touched the ball before
it went into touch When there is doubt, the attacking team takes the throw-in.
Exception: When a team takes a penalty kick, and the ball is kicked into touch, the throw-in
is taken by a player of the team that took the penalty kick. This applies whether the ball was
kicked directly or indirectly into touch
(b)	When the ball goes into touch from a knock-on or throw forward, the non offend ng team
will have rhe option of a lineout at the point the ball crossed the touch line, or a scrum at the
place of the knock-on or throw forward, or a quick throw in.
19.5	PLAYER WITH FOOT IN TOUCH
(a) If a player with one or both feel on or beyond the touch-line (or touch-in-goal line), picks up
the ball which was stationary within the playing area, that player has p eked up the bail in
the playing area and thereby that player has taken the ball into touch (or touch-in-goal).
(b) If a player with one or both feel on or beyond the touch-line (or touch-in-goal line), picks up
the ball, which was in motion within the playing area, that player is deemed to have picked
up the ball in touch (or touch-in-goal).
19.6	HOW THE THROW-IN IS TAKEN
The player taking the throw-in must stand at the correct place The player must not step
into the field of play when the ball is thrown. The ball must be thrown straight so that it
travels at least 5 metres along the line of touch before if first touches the ground or touches
or is touched by a player.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
2016
Law 19
Touch and Lineout
How the throw-in takes place
19.7	INCORRECT THROW-IN________________
(a) If the throw-in at a lineout is incorrect, the opposing team has the choice of throwing n ar s
I neout or a scrum on the 15-metre line If they choose the throw-in to the lineout ano it s
again incorrect, a scrum is formed. The team that took rhe first throw m throws in the bal
(b) The throw-in at the lineout must be taken without delay and without pretend ng to thro*
Sanction: Free Kick on the 15-metre I ne
(c)	A player must not intentionally or repeatedly throw the ball In not straight
Sanction: Penalty kick on the 15 metre line
125 WORLD RUGBY
Law 19 Touch and Lineout

WOULD
RUGBY.
LINEOUT
start play, quickly, safely and fairly, after the ball
•In between two lines of players.
are the players who form the two lines that
ayer In position to catch the ball when lineout
ick from the lineout. Any player may be the
re only one receiver at a lineout.
eout known as participating players. Players
^player who throws-ln and an immediate
ng to receive the ball from the lineout and the
DEFINITIO
The purpose of th^
has gone Into touc|
Lineout players. I
make a lineout.
Receiver. The rece
players pass or knd
receiver but each t<
Players taking pa
taking part in the Hi
opponent, the two
lineout players.
All other player-
at least 10 metres
nearer, until the Um
15-metre line. The T^-metre line Is 15 metres Infield and parallel with the
touchline.
Scrum after lineout. Any scrum ordered because of an infringement or stoppage
at the lineout Is on the 15-metre line on the line of touch.

lyers who are not taking part In the lineout must be
ne of touch, on or behind their goal line If that Is

5
19,8	FORMING^ LINEOUT
(a)	Minimum. At least two players from each team must form a lineout.
Sanction: Free Kick on the 15-metre line
(o) Maximum. The team throwing In the ball decides the maximum number of players in the
lineout
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
r 2016 i
126
Law 19 Touch and Lineout
WORLD
RUGBY.
(c)	The opposing ream may have fewer lineout players but they must nor have more
Sanction: Free Kick on the 15-metre ime
(a)	When the ball is In touch, every player who approaches the line of touch is presumed rod:
so to form a lineout. Players who approach the line of touch must do so without de'ay
Players of either team must not leave the lineout once they have taken up a position infte
Imeout unnl rhe Imeout has ended.
Sanction: Free Kick on the 15 metre line
(e) If the team throwing in the ball put fewer than the usual number of players in the I neo/
theu opponents must be given a reasonable time to move enough players out of the
to satisfy this Law
Sanction; Free K ck on the 15-metre line
(0 These players must leave the lineout without delay They must move to the offsde I ne. 10
metres behind the line of touch. If the Imeout ends before they reach this line, they may
rejoin p’ay.
Sanction: Free Kick on the 15-merre line
(g)	Failure to form a lineout. A team must not voluntarily fail to form a Imeout.
Sanction: Free Kick on me 15-metre Ime
(h)	Where the lineout players must stand. The front of rhe Imeout is not less than 5 metres
from the touchline. The back of the lineout is not more than 15 metres from the touch
All Imeout players must stand between these two points
Sanction: Free Kick on the 15-merre Ime
(i)	Where the receiver must stand. If a team uses a receiver, then that player, must be
positioned ar least 2m back from team mates m the lineout, and between the 5m and 15'
lines, until the Imeout begins.
Once the imeout has commenced, the receiver may move into the lineout and may p€<fcr~
all actions available to players in the Imeout and is liable to related sanctions.
Sanction: Free kick on the 15 metre line along the line of touch
127 WORLD RUGBY
WORLD
RUGBY.
Law 19 Touch and Lineout
The lineout
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
r 2016 1
128
Law 19 Touch and Lineout
(j)	Player between touch and 5 metres. The team nor throwing in must have a placer
standing between the touchline and the 5-metre line on that team’s side of the line cf
touch when the lineout is formed. That player must stand 2 metres from the line of tcuh
and 2 metres from the 5-metre line.
Sanction: Free Kick on the 15-metre line
(k)	Participating players in a lineout may change places before the ball is thrown.
(I)	Two single straight lines. The lineout players of both teams form two single para'a' L'-a
each at right angles to the touchline
Sanction: fiee Kick on rhe 15-metre line
(m)	Opposing players forming a lineout must keep a clear space between their inside shou'dr*i
This space is determined when players are in an upright stance
Sanction: Free Kick on the 15-metre line
(n)	Metre gap. Each line of players must be half a metre on their side of the line of touch.
Sanction: Free Kck on the 15-metre line
(o)	The line of touch must not be within 5 metres of the goal line
(p) After the lineout has formed, but before the ball has been thrown in, a player must not h: -
push, charge into, or obstruct an opponent
Sanction: Penalty kick on the 15-metre line
129 WORLD RUGBY
Law 19 Touch and Lineout
19.9	BEGINNING AND ENDING A LINEOUT
(a)	Lineout begins. The lineout begins when the ball leaves the hands of the player throwing it
in.
(b)	Lineout ends. The lineout ends when the ball or a player carrying it leaves the lineout.
This includes the following
• When the ball is thrown, knocked or kicked out of the lineout, the lineout ends.
• When the ball or a p;ayer carrying the ball moves into the area between the 5-metre line
and the touch!.ne. the lineout ends.
• When a lineout p:ayer hands the ball to a player who is peeling off. the lineout ends.
• When the ball is thrown beyond the 15-metre line, or when a player takes or puts it
beyond that line, the lineout ends
• When a ruck or maul oevelops in a lineout, and all the feet of all the p'ayers in the ruck or
maul move beyond the line of touch, the lineout ends.
• When the ball becomes unplayable in a lineout, the lineout ends. Play restarts with a
scrum
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION ■ULH 130
Law 19 Touch and Lineout
19.10	OPTIONS AVAILABLE IN A LINEOU'
(a)	Levering on an opponent. A lineout player must not use an opponent as a support
jumping.
Sanction: Penally kick on rhe 15-metre line
(b)	Holding or shoving. A lineout player must not hold, push. charge, obstruct or grasp an
opponent not holding the ball except when a ruck or maul is taking place
Sanction: Penalty kick on the 15-metre line
(c)	Illegal charging. A lineout player must not charge an opponent except m an attempt to
tackle the opponent or to play the ball.
Sanction: Penalty kick on the 15 metre line
(d)	Lifting and supporting. Players may assist a team-mate in jumping for the ball by I.frng
and supporting that player providing that the lifting and/or supporting players do not
support the jumping team-mate below the shorts from behind or below the th ghsfrom’*e
front.
Sanction: Free Kick on the 15-metre line
(e)	Pre-gripping is permitted. Players who are going to lift or support a team-mate jump.*g
for the ball may pre-grip that team-mate providing they do not pre-grip be'-ow the shorts
from beh nd and below the thighs from the front
Sanction: Free Kick on the 15-metre line
(f)	Jumping, supporting or lifting before the ball is thrown. A player must not jump or N
l.fted or supported before the ball has left the hands of the player throwing In.
Sanction: Free Kick on the 15-metre line
(g)	Lowering a Player. Players who support a jumping team-mate must lower that player to
the ground as soon as the ball has been won by a player of either team.
Sanction: Free Kick on the 15-metre line
(h)	Blocking the throw-in. A lineout player must not stand less than 5 metres from the
touchline. No player may block the f hrow-m or prevent the ball from travelling 5 metres
Sanction: Free Kick on the 15-metre line
151 WORLD RUGBY
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
2016
152
Law 19 Touch and Lineout
(i)	When the ball has been thrown beyond a player in the lineout, that player may move to tre
space between the touchline and the 5-metre line If the player moves into that space tne
player must not move towards that player's goal line before the lineout ends, except in a
peeling off movement.
Sanction: Free K ck on the 15-metre line
(j)	Catching or deflecting. When jumping for the bail, a player must use either both hands cr
the inside arm to try to catch or deflect the ball. The jumper must not use the outside arm
alone to try to catch or deflect the ball. If the jumper has both hands above the head either
hand may be used to play the ball
Sanction: Free Kick on the 15-metre line
(k)	Defending at a lineout. A player who jumps and gams possession of the ball in the IneoJ
may be tackled immediately upon returning to the ground
A player who gams possession of the ball in a lineout without jumping may be tackled
immediately.
In both cases, these actions must be commenced before a maul has formed.
Sanction: Penalty kick on the 15 metre line
19.11	PLAYER THROWING-IN
There are four options available to the player throwing in:
(a)	The thrower may stay within 5 metres of the touchline.
(b)	The thrower may retire to the offside line 10 metres behind the line of touch.
(c)	The thrower may join the lineout as soon as the ball has been thrown in.
(d)	The thrower may move into the receiver position if that position is empty. If the thrower
goes anywhere else, the thrower is offside
Sanction: Penally kick on the 15 metre line
133 WORLD RUGBY
RUGBY.
ILaw19 Touch and Lineout
19.12 PEELII
si
I DEFI NIT
* A lineout player
I passed back by a
hen leaving the lineout to catch the ball knocked or
(a)	When: A player must not peel off until the ball has left the hands of the player throwing .t
in.
Sanction ■ 15-metre line, in imp with the lire of touch,
(b)	A player who peels off. must stay within the area from that player's line of touch to 10
metres from the line of touch, and must keep moving until rhe lineout has ended
Sanction: • 15-metre line, in line with tne i ne of touch
(c)	Players may change their positions in the lineout before the ball is thrown in
19.13	OFFSIDE LINES AT THE LINEOUT
(a)	When a lineout forms, there are two separate offside lines, parallel to the goal lines, for the
teams.
(b)	Participating players. One offside line apples to the players taking part in the lineout
(usually some or all of rhe forwards, plus the scrum half and the player throwing in). Until
the ball is thrown in. and has touched a player or the ground, this offside line is the line of
touch After that, the offside line is a line through the ball.
(c)	Players not taking part. The other offside line applies to the players not taking part in the
lineout (usually the backs). For them, the offside line is 10 metres behind the line of touch
or their goal line, if that is nearer
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
13«<
Law 19 Touch and Lineout
WO4LD
RUGBY.
19.1	q OFFSIDE WHEN TAKING PART IN THE LINEOUT
(a)	Before the ball has touched a player or the ground. A player must not overstep the I re
of touch. A p’ayer is offside if. before the ball has touched a player or the ground, that piaj?
oversteps the line of touch, unless doing so while jumping for the ball. The player mjstjrc
from that p'ayer’s side of the line of touch
Sanction: Penalty kick on the 15-metre line
(b)	if a player jumps and crosses the line of touch bur fails to catch rhe ball, that player is no*
penal.sed provided that player gets back onside without delay.
Players jumping for the ball may take a step in any drect.on providing they do not step
across the line of touch.
Sanction: Penalty kick on the 15-metre line
(c)	After the ball has touched a player or the ground A p’ayer not carrying the ba is c“: >
if. after the ball has touched a player or the ground, that player steps in front of the bal
unless tackl.ng (or trying to tackle) an opponent Any attempt to tackle must start from~y
player s side of the ball
Sanction: Penalty kick on the 15-metre line
(d)	The referee must penalise any player who. intentionally or not. moves into an offsoe
position without trying to win possession or tackle an opponent
Sanction: Penalty kick on the 15-metre line
(e)	No player of either team participating in the lineout may leave the lineout unt.l it has ended
Sanction; Penalty kick on the 15-metre line
135 WORLD RUGBY
Law 19 Touch and Lineout
WO«ID
RUGBY.
(0 Long throw-in. If the player who is throwing in throws the ball beyond the 15-metre line. a
player taking parr in the lineout may run infield beyond the 15-metre line as soon as the ball
leaves the hands of the player throwing in.
If this happens, an opponent may also run infield If a player runs infield to take a long throw
in. and the bail s not thrown beyond the 15-metre line, this player is offside and must be
penalised.
Sanction: Per the 15-mefre line
(g) Ruck and maul from a lineout. When a ruck or a maul develops in a lineout the offs.de line
for a player taking parr in the lineout no longer runs through the ball The offside line is now
the hindmost foot of that player’s ream in the ruck or maul
(h) f he lineout ends when the ruck or maul leaves the line of touch. For this to happen, all the
feet of all the players in the ruck or maul must have left the line of touch.
(I)	A player taking part in the lineout must either join the ruck or maul, or retire to the offsde
line and stay at that line, otherwise that player is offside.
Sanction: Penalty kick on the 15-metre line
(j) The rest of the Law of ruck or maul applies. A player must not join the ruck or maul from th
opponents’ side.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(k) Players must not join it in front of the offside line If they do. they are offside.
Sanction: Penalty kick on rhe 15-metre line
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
2016 1
WORLD
RUGBY.
Law 19 Touch and Lineout
19.15 OFFSIDE WHEN NOT TAKING PART
(a)	A player who is not taking part in the lineout is offside if that player oversteps the offsde
fine before the lineout has ended.
Sanction: Penalty kick on the offending team’s off • ’ n? opposite the place of
infringement, at least 15 metres from the touchline
(b)	Players not yet onside when the ball is thrown in. A player may throw in the ball even if a
team-mate has nor yet reached rhe offside line However, if this player is not try.ng to reach
an onside position without delay, this player is offside.
Sanction: Penally kick on the offending team’s offside ,.ne opposite the place of
infringement, at least 15 metres from the touchline
(c)	Long throw In. If the player who is throwing in throws the ball beyond the 15-metre line, a
player of the same team may run forward to take the ba’I as soon as the ball leaves the
hands of the player throwing in. If that player does so. opponents may also run toward if a
player runs forward to take a long throw in, and the ball is not thrown beyond the 15-metre
hne. this player is offside and must be penalised
Sanction: Penalty kick on the offending team’s offside Ine opposite the p'ace of
infringement, at least 15 metres from the touchline
(d)	Ruck and maul from a lineout. When a ruck or maul develops in a lineout, the lineout nas
not ended until all the feet of all the players in the ruck or maul have moved beyond the Ine
of touch.
Until then, the offside line for players not taking part in the lineout is still 10 metres behind
the line of touch, or the goal line if that is nearer A player who oversteps this offside I ne is
offside.
Sanction: Penalty kick on the offside line, at least 15 metres from the touchline
137 WORLD RUGBY
Law 20 Scrum
WOULD
RUGBY.
DEFINIT
The purpose of t
infringement or,
A scrum Is formq
together In thre<§
heads ofthefro^
half throws the b
hooking the balu
The middle line J
cannot take plaq
The tunnel Is the:
'Is to restart play quickly, safely and fairly, after a minor
eld of play when eight players from each team, bound
each team, close up with their opponents so that the
B Interlocked. This creates a tunnel into which a scrum
I front row players can compete for possession by
[r of their feet.
»ust not be within 5 metres of the goal line. A scrum
tetresof a touchline.
reen the two front rows.
The player of eitl
The middle line C
where the shouR
rho throws the ball Into the scrum Is the scrum half.
Binary line on the ground In the tunnel beneath the line
le two front rows meet.
The middle playcMjj^BTfront row is the hooker.
The players on either side of the hooker are the props. The left side props are the
loose head props. The fight side props are the tight head props.
The two players In the second row who push on the props and the hooker are the
The outside players who bind onto the second or third row are the flankers.
The player in the third row who usually pushes on both locks is the No.8.
Alternatively, the No. 8 may push on a lock and a flanker.

LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
2016
158
WOULD
RUGBY.
Law 20 Scrum
20.1 FORMING A SCRUM	___________
(a)	Where lhe scrum takes place. The place for a scrum is where the infringement or
stoppage happened, or as near to it as is practicab’e in the field of play, unless otherwise
stated in Law.
(b)	If this is less than 5 metres from a touchline, lhe place for the scrum is 5 metres from that
touchl.ne A scrum can lake place only in the field of play The middle line of a scrum must
not be within 5 metres of the goal line when it is formed
(c)	If there is an infringement or stoppage in in-goal. the place for the scrum is 5 metres from
the goal-line. The scrum is formed in line with the infringement or stoppage.
(d)	No delay. A team must not intentionally delay forming a scrum. A ream must be read/ fa
the referee to call ‘crouch’ within 30 seconds from the time the referee makes the mark for
the scrum.
Sanction: Free Kick
(e)	Number of players: eight. A scrum must have eight players from each team. All eight
players must stay bound to the scrum until it ends Each front row must have three p'a/ers
in it. no more and no less. Two locks must form the second row
Sanction: Penalty kick
Exception: When a team is reduced to fewer than fifteen for any reason, then the number
of p'ayers of each team m the scrum may be similarly reduced. Where a permitted
reduction is made oy one team, there is no requirement for lhe other team to make a
similar reduction However a team must not have fewer than five players in the scrum.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(f)	Front rows coming together. First, lhe referee marks with a foot the place where the
scrum is to be formed. Before the two front rows come together they must be standing na
more than an arm’s length apart. The ball Is in lhe scrum half's hands, ready to be thrown .n
The front rows must crouch so that when they meet, each player's head and shoulders B-e
no lower than the hips. The front rows must interlock ear against ear so that no player s
head is next to the head of a team-mate.
Sanction: Free Kick
159 WORLD RUGBY
Law 20 Scrum
WOULD
RUGBY.
(g)	The referee will call 'crouch* and then 'bind* The front rows crouch and using rhe.r outside
arm each prop must bind A loose-head prop must bind on the opposing tight-head prop by
placing the left arm inside the right arm of the tight head and gripp ng the tight-head prop’s
jersey on the back or side. A tight-head prop must bind on the opposing loose-head prop by
placing the right arm outside the left upper arm of the opposing loose-head prop and
gripping the loose head prop’s jersey with the right hand only on the back or side The props
must not gi p the opponent s chest, arm. sleeve or collar Fol'owing a pause, the referee will
then call 'set* when the front rows are ready The front rows may then engage. The 'set* call
is not a command but an indication that the front rows may come together when ready
The sanction for any infringement will be a free kick.
Sanction
(h)	A crouched postion is the extension of the normal stance by bending the knees sufficiently
to move into the engagement without a charge.
(i)	Charging. A front row must not form at a distance from its opponents and rush against
them or pull them This is dangerous play.
Sanction: r-enalt. . ck
(j)	Stationary and parallel. Until the ball leaves the scrum half’s hands, the scrum must be
stationary and the middle line must be parallel to the goal lines. A ream must not shove the
scrum away from the mark before the ball is thrown in
Sanction ice Kck
20.2	FRONT-ROW PLAYERS’ POSITIONS
(a)	All players In a position to shove. When a scrum has formed, the body and feet of each
front row player must be m a normal position to make a forward shove
Sanction: Free Kick
(b)	This means that rhe front row players must have both feet on the ground, with their weight
firmly on at least one foot Players must not cross their feet, although the foot of one player
may cross a team-mate's foot. Each player's shoulders must be no lower than the hips.
Sanction: Free Kick
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
2016 1
WORLD
RUGBY.
Law 20 Scrum
(c)	Hooker in a position to hook. Until the ball is thrown in. the hooker must be in a pos.tion
to hook the ball. The hookers must have both feet on the ground, with their weight frmiycn
at least one foot. A hooker's foremost foot must not be in front of the foremost foot of tna?
team's props.
Sanction: Free K’Ck
20.3	BINDING IN THE SCRUM
DEFINITIONS
When a player binds on a team-mare that plat
hand to shoulder to grasp the team-mate’s be
armpit. Placing only a hand on another player
lewhole arm from
rthe level of the
tory binding.
(a)
Binding by all front row players. All front row players must bind firmly and continuous.?
from the start to the finish of the scrum
Sanction: Penalty kick
(b)	Binding by hookers. The hooker may bind either over or under the arms of the props. The
props must not support the hooker so that rhe hooker has no weight on either foot
Sanction: Penalty kick
(c)	Binding by loose head props. A loose head prop must bind on the opposing tight head
prop by placing the left arm inside the right arm of the tight head and gripping the tight
head prop's jersey on the back or side. The loose head prop must not grip the chest, arm.
sleeve or collar of the opposition tight head prop. The loose head prop must not exert any
downward pressure
Sanction: Penalty kick
(d)	Binding by tight head props. A tight head prop must bind on rhe opposing loose head
prop by placing the right arm outside the left upper arm of the opposing loose head prop.
The tight head prop must grip the loose head prop’s jersey with the right hand only on the
back or side. The tight head prop must not grip the chest, arm. sleeve or collar of the
opposition loose head prop. The tight head prop must not exert any downward pressure.
Sanction: Penalty kick
IM WORLD RUGBY
!Law2O Scrum
Binding by props
(e)	Both the loose head and tight head props may alter their bind providing they do so in
accordance with this Law.
(0 Binding by all ot her players. All players m a scrum, other than front-row players, must b.nd
on a lock's body with at least one arm prior to the scrum engagement. The locks must bind
with the props in front of them. No other player other than a prop may hold an opponent.
Sanction: Penally kick
(g) Flanker obstructing opposing scrum half. A flanker may bind onto the scrum at any
angle, provided the flanker is properly bound. The flanker must nor widen that angle and so
obstruct the opposing scrum half moving forward.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(h) Scrum collapse. If a scrum collapses, the referee must blow the whistle immediately so
that players slop pushing.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
2016
H<2
(0 Player forced upwards. If a player in a scrum is lifted in the air. or is forced upwards out c’
the scrum, the referee must blow the whistle immediately so that players stop push.ng
20A THE TEAM THROWING THE BALL INTO THE SCRUM
(a)	After an infringement, the team that did not cause the infringement throw in the ba
(b)	Scrum after ruck. Refer to Law 16.7.
(c)	Scrum after maul. Refer to Law 17.6.
(d)	Scrum after any other stoppage. After any oth'. r stoppage or irregularity not covered ty
Law. the team that was moving forward before the stoppage throws in the ball. If neither
team was moving forward, the attacking team throws in the ball
(e)	When a scrum remains stationary and the ball does not emerge immediately a further
scrum is ordered at the place of rhe stoppage. The bail is thrown in by the ream not in
possess on at the time of the stoppage
(f)	When a scrum becomes stationary and does not start moving immediately, the ba'I must
emerge immed'ate.'y. If it does not a further scrum will be ordered The ball is thrown in by
the team not in possession ar the time of the stoppage
(g)	If a scrum collapses or lifts up into the air without sanction a further scrum will be ordered
and the team who originally threw in the ball will throw the ball in again.
If a scrum has to be reformed for any other reason not covered in this Law the team who
originally threw in the ball will throw the ball in again
20.5	THROWING THE BALL INTO THE SCRUM
No Delay. As soon as the front rows have come together, the scrum half must throw m tne
bali without delay. The scrum half must throw in the ball when told to do so by the referee
The scrum half must throw in the ball from the side of the scrum first chosen.
Sanction: Free Kick
1A3 WORLD RUGBY
Law 20 Scrum
RUGBY.
20.6	HOW THE SCRUM HALF THROWS IN THE BALL
(a)	The scrum half must stand one metre from the mark on the middle line so that player's
head does not touch the scrum or go beyond the nearest front row player.
Sanction:1 ee Kick
(b)	The scrum half must hold the ball with both hands, with its major axis paral'el to the ground
and to the touchline over the middle line between the front rows, mid-way between knee
and ankle.
Sanction.
Throw in at the scrum
1*4*4
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
(c)	The scrum half must throw in the ball at a quick speed. The ball must be released from the
scrum halPs hands from outside the tunnel.
Sanction: Free Kick
(d)	The scrum half must throw m the ball straight along the middle line, so that it first touches
the ground immediately beyond the width of the nearer prop's shoulders.
Sanction: Free Kick
(e)	The scrum half must throw in the ball with a single forward movement. This means that
there must be no backward movement with the ba‘i. The scrum half must not pretend to
throw the ball.
Sanction: Fiee Kick
20.7	WHEN THE SCRUM BEGINS
(a)	Play in the scrum begins when the ball leaves the hands of the scrum half
(b)	If the scrum half throws in the ball and it comes out at either end of the runnel, the ba‘
must be throw in again unless a free kick or penalty has been awarded.
(c)	If the ball is not played by a front row player, and it goes straight through the tunnel and
comes out behind the foot of a far prop without being touched, the scrum half must throw
it in again.
1^5 WORLD RUGBY
Law 20 Scrum
WOULD
RUGBY.
20.8	FRONT-ROW PLAYERS
(a)	Striking before the throw-in (‘foot up’). All front row players must place the.r feet to
leave a clear tunnel. Until the ball has left the scrum hairs hands, they must not raise or
advance a foot They must not do anything to stop the ball being thrown in to the scrum
correctly or touching the ground at the correct place.
Sanction:
(b)	Striking after the throw-in. Once the ball touches the ground in the tunnel, any front row
player may use either foot to try to win possession of the ba'I.
(c)	Kicking-out. A front row player must not intentionally kick the ball out of the tunnel in the
direction from which it was thrown in.
Sanction:
(d)	If the ball is kicked cut unintentionally, the same team must throw it in again.
(e)	If the ball is repeatedly kicked out. the referee must treat this as intentional and penalise the
offender
Sanction: Penalty ■
(f)	Swinging. A front row player must not strike for the ball w.th both feet. No player may
intentionally raise both feet from the ground, either when the ball is being thrown in or
afterwards
Sanction: Penalty kick
(g)	Twisting, dipping or collapsing. Front row players must not twist or lower the.r bodies, or
pull opponents, or do anything that is likely to collapse the scrum, either when the ball is
being thrown in or afterwards.
Sanction: Penally kick
(h)	Referees must penalise strictly any intentional collapsing of the scrum. This is dangerous play.
Sanction: Penalty kick
() Lifting or forcing an opponent up. A front row player must not lift an opponent in the air.
or force an opponent upwards out of the scrum, either when the ball is being thrown in or
afterwards. This is dangerous play.
Sanction: Penalty kick
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
lt»6
Law 20 Scrum
20.9	SCRUM-GENERAL RESTRICTIONS
(a)	All players: Collapsing. A player must not intentionally collapse a scrum A player must ncr
intentionally fall or kneel in a scrum. This is dangerous play.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(b)	All players: Handling In the scrum. Players must not handle the ball in the scrum or pc* c
up with their legs
Sanction: Penalty kick
(c)	All players: Other restrictions on winning the ball. Playeismustnottrytowintheba
the scrum by using any parr of their body except their fool or lower leg.
Sanction: Free Kic*
(d)	All players: When the ball comes out, leave it out. When the ball has left the scrum, a
player must not bring it back in to the scrum.
Sanction: Free K-ck
(e)	All players: No falling on the ball. A player must nor fall on or over the ball as it is com ng
out of the scrum.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(f)	Locks and flankers: Staying out of the tunnel. A player who is not a front row player
must not play the ball in the tunnel.
Sanction: Free Kick
(g)	Scrum half: Kicking in the scrum. A scrum half must not kick the ball while it is in the
scrum.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(h)	Scrum half: Dummying. A scrum half must not take any action to make the opponents
think that the ball is out of the scrum while it is still In the scrum.
Sanction: Free Kick
(i)	Scrum half: Holding opposing flanker. A scrum half must not grasp an oppos ng danker
Sanction: Penalty kick
1W WORLD RUGBY
Law 20 Scrum
WORIO
RUGBY.
20.10	ENDING THE SCRUM
(a)	The ball comes out. When the ball comes out of the scrum in any direction except the
tunnel, the scrum ends
(b)	Scrum in the in-goal. A scrum cannot take place in the in-goal When the ball in a scrum is
on or over the goal line, the scrum ends and an attacker or a defender may legally ground
the ball for a try or a touch down,
(c)	Hindmost player unbinds. The hindmost player in a scrum is the p’ayer whose feet are
nearest the team's own goal line If the hindmost player unbinds from the scrum with the
ball al that p'ayer's feet and picks up the ball, the scrum ends
(d)	When a team has the- ball ar the number 8’s feel, and is trying to move forward but is not
succeeding m doing so. the referee will call "useif once the ball has been ar the number 8'*
feet for a reasonable amount of time (3-5 seconds), The team must then use rhe ba’l
immediately.
20.11	SCRUM WHEELED
(a)	If a scrum is wheeled through more than 90 degrees, so that the middle line has passed
beyond a position parallel to lhe touchline, lhe referee must stop play and order another
scrum
(b)	This new scrum is formed at the place where the previous scrum ended. Tne ball is thrown
in by the team that previously threw it In.
220.12 OFFSIDEATTHE SCRUM
(a) When the scrum is set. the scrum half not throwing the bail into the scrum must take up a
position either at the same side of the scrum as the scrum half throwing in the ball or
behind the offside line defined for other p’ayers.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
2016
1A8
(b)	Offside for scrum-halves. When a team has won the ball in a scrum, the scrum half of tnr
team is offside if both feet are in front of rhe ball while it is still in the scrum. If the scrum
half has only one fool in front of the ball, the scrum half is not offside
Sanction: Penalty kick
fJde’ for blue scrum half
5 melres
for blue players
>t in the scrum
5 metres
Offside line for blue scrum half
Offside line for yellow scrum half
when not playing ball
Offside line for yellow players
who are not in the scrum
Scrum offside
K9 WORLD RUGBY
I Law 20 Scrum
WORLD
RUGBY.
(c)	When a ream has won rhe ball in a suum, the scrum half of the opposing team is offside if
that scrum half steps in front of the ball with either foot while the ball is slid in the scrum.
This scrum-half may not move into the space between the flanker and No. 8 when
following the ball through the scrum
Sanction: Penalty kick
(d)	The scrum half whose team does not win possession of the ball must not move to the
opposite side of the scrum and overstep the offside line. For that scrum half that runs
through the hindmost foot of that player's team in the scrum.
Sanction: P< ’naltyhck
(e)	The scrum half whose team does not win possession of the ball must not move away from
the scrum and then remain in front of the offside line. For that scrum half that runs through
the hindmost foot of that player's team in the scrum.
Sanction: Pe> -’ty ‘
(f)	Any player may be scrum half, but a team can have only one scrum ha f at each scrum.
Sanction: P«. ty k > on the offside line
(g)	Offside for players not in the scrum. Players who are not in tne scrum and who are not
the team's scrum half, are offside if they remain in front of their offside l.ne or overstep the
offside line which is a line parallel to the goal lines and 5 metres behind the hindmost player
of each team in a scrum.
Sanction: Penalty kick on the offside line
(h)	If the hindmost foot of a team is on or behind that team's goal I ne. rhe offside line for
scrum halves and non participants is the goal line.
() Loitering. When a scrum is forming, players not taking part tn it must retire to their offside
I ne without delay If they do not. they are loitering. Lo.terers must be penalised
Sanction: Penalty kick on the offside line
120.13	UNDER 19 VARIATIONS IN ADULT MATCHES
A Union may implement rhe Under 19 Scrum Law Variations at defined levels of the Game
within its jurisdiction
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
2016
150
Law 21
Penalty and Free Kicks
DEFINITIONS
Penalty kicks and free kicks are awarded to tl
infringements by their opponents.
21.1	WHERE PENALTY AND FREE KICI
Unless a Law states otherwise, the mark for a penalty or free kick is at the place of
infringement.
21.2	WHERE PENALTY AND FREE KI

(a)	The kicker must take the penalty or free kick at the mark or anywhere behind it on a Lne
through the mark. If the place for a penally or free kick is within 5 metres of the goal I ne.
the mark for the kick is 5 metres from the goal line. opposite the place of infringement
Co) When a penalty or free kick is awarded in In-goal, the mark for the kick is in the field of pay
5 metres from the goal line, in line with the place of infringement
Sanction; Any infringement by the kicker’s team results in a scrum 5 metres from thegoa.
I ne in line with the mark. The opposing ream throws tn the ball
(c)	If a quickly taken penalty kick or free kick is taken from the wrong place the referee will order
the kick to be taken again.
21.3	HOW THE PENALTY AND FREE KICKS ARE TAKEN
(a)	Any player may take a penalty or free kick awarded for an infringement with any type ot
kick, punt, drop kick or place kick. The ball may be kicked with any part of the lower leg frem
knee to the foot, excluding the knee and the heel.
151 WORLD RUGBY
Law 21 Penalty and Free Kicks
0
WOULD
RUGBY.
(o) Bouncing the ball on the knee is not taking a kick.
Sanction: Any infringement by the kicker’s team results in a scrum at the mark The
opposing team throws in the ball.
(c)	The kicker must use the ball that was in play unless the referee decides it was defective
Sanction. Anyinfnr ement by the kicker's team results in a scrum at the mark The
opposing team thr. .sin the ball.
:EE KICK OPTIONS AND REQUIREMENTS
(a) Scrum alternative. A team awarded a penalty or free kick may choose a scrum instead
They throw in rhe ball
(o) Lineout alternative. A team awarded a penalty or a free kick al a lineout may choose a
further lineout into which they throw in. This is in addition to the scrum op’.on
(c) No delay. If a kicker indicates to the referee the intention to kick a pena'ty kick at goal, the
kick must be taken within one minute from the time the player indicates the intention to
kick at goal The intention to kick is signalled by the arrival of the kicking tee or sand, or
when the player makes a mark on the ground. The player must comp'ete the kick within
one minute even if the ball rolls over and has to be placed again If the one m-nute is
exceeded, the kick is disallowed, a scrum is ordered at the place of the mark and the
opponents throw in the ball For any other type of kick, the kick must be taken without
undue delay
(d)	A clear kick. The kicker must kick the ball a visible distance If the kicker is hold ng it. it must
clearly leave the hands If it is on the ground, it must clearly leave the mark.
(e)	Place kicking for touch. The kicker may punt or drop kick for touch but must not place kick
for touch.
(f)	Kicker’s freedom of action. The kicker is free to kick the ball in any direct.on and may play
the ball again
(g)	Kick taken in the in-goal. If a player retires into in-goal to take a penalty or free kick
awarded in the field of play and a defending player by foul play prevents an opponent from
scoring a try a penalty try is awarded.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
2016
152
Law 21 Penalty and Free Kicks
(h)	Out of play in the in-goal. If a player retires into m-goal to lake a penalty or free kick
awarded in the field of play and following the kick the ball goes into touch in-goal.oronor
over the dead ball line, or a defending player makes the ball dead before it has crossed th?
goal Ime. a 5-metre scrum is awarded The attacking team throws in the ball
(i)	Behind the ball. All the kicker s team at a penally or free kick must be behind the ba untl
it has been kicked, except the placer for a place kick.
(j)	Kick taken quickly. If the penalty or free kick is taken so quickly that players of the Icier's
team are still in front of the ball, they are not penai.sed for being offside. However, tney
must retire immediately. They must not stop retiring until they are onside. They must not
fake part in the game until they are onside This applies to all players of that team, whether
they are inside or outside the playing area
(k)	In this situation, players become onside when they run behind the team-mate who took the
penalty or free kick, or when a team-mate carrying the ball runs In front of them, or when a
team-mate who was behind the ball when it was kicked runs in front of them.
(I)	An offside player cannot be pul onside by any action of an opponent.
Sanction: Unless otherwise stated in Law any infringement by the kicker s team results n a
scrum at the mark. The opposing team throw in the ball
21.5	SCORING A GOAL FROM A PENALTY KICK
(a) A penalty goal can be scored from a penalty kick
(b)	If the kicker indicates to the referee the intention to kick at goal, the kicker must kick at goe
Once the kicker has made the intention clear, there can be no change of the intention. The
referee may enquire of the kicker as to the intention
(c)	If the kicker indicates to the referee the intent to kick at goal, the opposing team must rr-:
still with their hands by their sides from the time the kicker starts to approach to kick unti
the ball is kicked.
(d)	If the kicker has not indicated an intention to kick at goal but lakes a drop kick and scores a
goal, the goal stands.
153 WORLD RUGBY
(Law 21 Penalty and Free Kicks
WO«LD
RUGBY.
(e)	If the opposing team Infringes while the kick is being taken but the kick at goal is successful.
the goal stands A further penalty is not awarded for the infringement.
(f)	The kicker may place the ball directly on the ground or on sand, sawdust or a kicking lee
approved by the Union.
Sanction: Uni? s ot ■ wise stated in Law any infringement by the kicker s team results in a
serumal themjrk opposing team throws in the ball
Penalty kick at goal
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
2016 1
Law 21 Penalty and Free Kicks
21.6	SCORING FROM A FREE KICK
(a) A goal cannot be scored from a free kick.
(b)	The team awarded a free kick cannot score a dropped goal until after the ball next becomes
dead, or until after an opponent has played or touched it. or has tackled the ball career. Ths
restnetion applies also to a scrum or lineout taken instead of a free kick.
21.7	WHAT THE OPPOSING TEAM MUST DO AT A PENALTY KICK
(a) Must run from the mark. The opposing team must immediately run towards their own
goal Lne until they are at least 10 metres away from the mark for the penalty kick, or until
they have reached their goal line if that is nearer the mark.
(o) Must keep running. Even if the penalty kick is tak en and the kicker’s team is playing the
ball, opposing players must keep running until they have retired the necessary d.srance.
They must not take part in the game until they have done so.
(c)	Kick taken quickly. If the penalty kick is taken so quickly that opponents have no
opportunity to retire, they will not be penalised for this However, they must continue to
retire as described in 21 7(b) above or until a team-mate who was 10 metres from the
mark has run in front of them, before they take part in the game.
(d)	Interference. The opposing team must not do anything to delay the penalty kick or
obstruct the kicker They must not intentionally take, throw or kick the ball out of reach of
the kicker or the kicker's team mates.
Sanction: Any infringement by the opposing team results in a second penalty kick, 10
metres tn front of the mark for the first kick. This mark must not be within 5 metres of me
goal line Any player may take the kick. The kicker may change the type of kick and may
choose to kick ar goal. If the referee awards a second penalty kick, the second penalty Lek 6
not taken before the referee has made the mark indicating the place of the penalty
155 WORLD RUGBY
IILaw 21 Penalty and Free Kicks
V.X>»ID
RUGBY.
HE OPPOSING TEAM HAVE AT A FREE KICK
(a) Must run from the mark. The opposing team must immediately run towards their own
goal line until they are ar feast 10 metres away from the mark for the free ktck. or until they
have reached their goal line if that is nearer the mark. If the free kick is in a defend ng reams
in-goal area, the oppc sing team must immediately run towards their own goal line until
they are at least 10 metres away from the mark and not nearer than 5 metres from the goal
line
(d)	Must keep running. Even if the free kick is taken and the kicker's team is playing the ball,
opposing players m r keep running until they have retired the necessary d stance They
must not take part m rhe game until they have done so.
(c) Kick taken quickly. J the free kick Is taken so quickly that opponents have no opportuaty
to retire, they will not be penalised for this However, they must continue to retire as
described in 21 8(b) above or until a team-mate who was 10 metres from the mark has run
in front of them, before they take part m the game.
(d)	Interference. The opposing team must not do anything to delay the free kick or obstruct
the kicker They must not intentionally take, throw or kick the ba''I out of reach of the Mcke
or the kicker's team mates.
(e)	Charging the free kick. Once they have retired the necessary distance. p’a>ers of tne
opposing team may charge and try to prevent the kick being taken They may charge t e
free kick as soon as the kicker starts to approach to kick
(0 Preventing the free kick. If the opposing team charge and prevent the free kck being
taken, the kick Is disallowed Play restarts with a scrum at the mark. The oppos ng team
throw m the ball
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
2016
156
Law 21
Penalty and Free Kicks
(g)	Free kick taken In the in-goal. If a free kick has been awarded and the player retires into
in-goal to take it and the opponents charge and prevent the kick from being taken, a 5
metre scrum is ordered. The attacking team throws in the ball If a free kick is taken in mein
goal, an opponent who legitimately plays it there can score a try.
(h)	Charged down. If opponents charge down a free kick in the playing area, play continues.
Sanction; Any infringement by the opposing tec m re in a second free hck. awarded 10
metres in front of the mark for the first kick Th.- mark rust not be within 5 metres of the
goal line. Any player may take the kick If the <1.. .■ - ds a second free kick, the second
free kick is not taken before the referee has n nc •- .; indicating the place of the free
kick.
21.9 CONTRIVED INFRINGEMENTS AT THE
If the referee believes that the kicker's team has contrived an infringement by their
opponents, the referee does not award a further penalty but allows play to continue
(a) The kicker must not pretend to kick As soon as the kicker makes a move to kick, the
opponents may charge.
(b) If the referee believes that the kicker's team has contrived an infringement by their
opponents, the referee does not award a further free kick but allows play to continue.
157 WORLD RUGBY
During the match
I In-goal
'law22 In-goal
WORLD
RUGBY,
DEFINITIONS
In-goal is part of the ground as defined in L
by players from either team.
When attacking players are first to groun
attacking players score a try.
When defending players are first to grou
players make a touch down.
A defending player who has one foot on t
the ball is considered to have both feet in i
jonents’ In-goal, the
le in-goal who receives
ball may be grounded
al, the defending
22.1 GROUNDING THE BALL
Grounding the ball
159 WORLD RUGBY
ULaw22 In-Goal
There are two ways a player can ground the ball
(a) Player touches the ground with the ball. A player grounds rhe bali by holding the ba'I and
touching the grouno with it. in in-goal 'Holding' means holding in the hand or hands, or in
the arm or arms No downward pressure is requ red
(b) Player presses down on the ball. A player grounds rhe ball when it is on the ground in the
m goal and the player presses down on it with a hand or hands, arm or arms, or the front of
the player's body from waist Io neck inclusive.

EBALL
Picking up the ball from the ground is not ground ng it. A player may pck up the ball in rhe
m-goal and ground it elsewhere in the m-goal
ED BY AN ATTACKING PLAYER
(a) Try. When an attacking player who Is onside is first to ground the ball in the opponents in-
goal. the player scores a try. This applies whether an attacking or a defending p ayer is
responsible for the ball being in the in goal.
(o) When an attacking player who has possession of the ball grounds the bal in In-goal and
simultaneously contacts the touch-in-goal line or the dead-ba'I-Lne (or anywhere beyond).
a 22m drop-out is awarded to the defending team.
OTHER WAYS TO SCORE A TRY
(a) Grounded on the goal line. The goal line is part of the in-goal If an attack ng player is first
to ground the ball on the opponents' goal line, a try is scored
(b) Grounded against a goal post. The goal posts and padd ng surrounding them are part of
the goal line, which is part of m-goal. If an attacking player is first to ground the ba I against
a goal post or padding, a try Is scored.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
r 2016 1
160
(c)	Pushover try. A scrum or ruck
cannot rake place in the in-goal
If a scrum or ruck is pushed into
the in-goat, an attacking player
may legally ground the ball as
soon as the ball reaches or
crosses the goal line and a try is
scored.
161 WORLD RUGBY
WORLD
RUGBY.
LLaw 22 In-Goal
(d)	Momentum try. If an attacking player with the ball is tackled short of the goal line but the
player’s momentum carries the p'ayer in a continuous movement along the ground into the
opponents' m-goal. and the player is first to ground the ball, a try is scored
(e)	Tackled near the goal line. If a player is tackled near to the opponents' goal line so that
this player can immediately reach out and ground the ba'I on or over the goal line, a fry is
scored
(f)	In th s situation, defending players who are on their feet may legally prevent the try by
pulling the ball from the tackled player's hands or arms, but must not kick the ball
(g)	Player in touch or louch-in-
goal. if an attacking player is in
touch or in touch in-goal, the
player can score a try by
grounding the ball m the
opponents’ in-goal provided
the player is not carrying the
ball.
(n) Penalty try. A penally try is
awarded if a try would probably
have been scored but for foul
play by the defending team. A
penalty try is awarded if a try
would probably have been
scored in a better position but
for foul play by the defending
team.
(i) A penalty try is awarded
between the goal posts. The
defending ream may charge
the conversion kick after a
penalty try.
Player in touch-in-goal, not
carrying the ball but
grounding the ball and
scoring a try
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
2016
162
M.
22.5	BALL GROUNDED BYADEFENDII
(a)	Touch down. When defending players are first to ground the ball in their m-goal. it results n
a touch down.
(b)	Player in touch or touch-ln-goal. If defending players are in touch m goal, they can ma«e
a touch down by grounding the ball in their in-goal provided they are not carrying the ba'l
(c)	Grounded against a goal post. The goal posts and pada.ng surrounding them are pan of
the goal Ime If a defending player is first to ground the call against a goal post or padd'ng.
the result is a touch down.
22.6	SCRUM, RUCK OR MAUL PUSHED INTO IN-GOAL
A scrum, ruck or maul can take place only in the field of play. As soon as a scrum, ruck or
maul is pushed across the goal Ime. a player may legally ground the ball This results in a
touch down or try
22.7	RESTARTING AFTER A TOUCH DOWN
(a)	When an attacking player sends or carries the ball Into the opponents* in-goal and it
becomes dead there, either because a defender grounded it or because it went into touch-
m-goal or on or over the dead ball line, a drop out is awarded
(b)	If an attacking player knocks-on or throws-forward in the field of play and the ball goes into
the opponents in-goal and it is made dead there, a scrum is awarded where the knock-on
or throw forward happened.
(c)	If, at a kick-off or drop-out. the ball is kicked into the opponents' in-goal without having
touched or been touched by a player and a defending player grounds it there or makes it
dead without delay, the defending team have two choices
• To have a scrum formed at the centre of the line from which the kick was taken and they
throw m the ball; or
• To have the other team kick off or drop out again
163 WORLD RUGBY
WORLD
RUGBY.
L«aw22 In-Goal
(d)	If a defending p'ayer rhrew or look the ball into the m-goal. and a defending player
grounded it and there has been no infringement, play is restarted by a 5-metre scrum. The
position of rhe scrum is m line with where rhe ball has been touched down. The attacking
side throws in the ball
(e)	If a defending team has put the ball into their own ingoal and a defend ng p’ayer kicks the
ball so that is charged down in m goal and then made dead, the attacking s’de is awarded a
5-metre scrum in line with where the ball is made dead and they throw in rhe ball
212.8 BALL KICKED DEAD THROUGH IN-GOAL
If a team kicks the Dali through their opponents’ in-goal into fouch-in-goa! or on or over the
dead ball line, exceor by an unsuccessful kick at goal or attempted dropped gca'. the
defending team has two choices:
• To have a drop out. or
• To have a scrum al the place where the ball was kicked and they throw in

PLAYER IN IN-GOAL
(a) A defending player who has part of one foot in in-goal is considered to have both feet m in-
goal.
(b)	If a player with one or both feet on or behind the goal line, picks up rhe ba l. which was
stationary within the field of play, that player has picked up the ball in the field of play and
thereby that player has taken the ball into m goal
(c)	If a player with one or both feet on or behind the goal line picks up the ball, which was tn
motion within the field of play, that player has p cked up the ba’I within m goal
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
2016
16*<
(d) If a player with one or boih feel on or behind the dead ball line, picks up the ball, which was
stationary within in-goal. that player deemed has picked up the ball in in-goal and thereby
that player has made the ball dead
(e) If a player with one or both feet on or behind the dead ball line picks up lhe ball, wh.ch was
in motion within m-goal. that player has picked up the ball outside the playing area
22.10	BAIL HELD UP IN-GOAL	_______
When a player carrying the ball is held up in lhe in-goal so that the player cannot ground the
ball, the ball is dead A 5-metre scrum is formed This would apply if play similar to a maul
takes place in m-goal. The attacking team throws in the ba!
22.11	BALL DEAD IN IN-GOAL
(a)	When the ball touches the touch-in-goal line or lhe dead ball line, or touches anything or
anyone beyond those lines, lhe ball becomes dead, if the bail was played into in-goal by tn?
attacking team, a drop-out shall be awarded to the defending team If the ball was played
into in-goal by the defending team, a 5-metre scrum shall be awarded and the attacking
team throws in the ball.
(b)	When a player carrying lhe ball touches the touch-in-goal line, lhe dead ball line, or touches
the ground beyond those lines, the ball becomes dead. If the ball was carried into m-goal by
the attacking team, a drop-out shall be awarded to the defending ream. If the ball was
carried into in-goal by the defending team, a 5-metre scrum shall be awarded and lhe
attacking team throws in the ball
(c)	When a player scores a try or makes a touch down, the ball becomes dead.
22.12	BALL OR PLAYER TOUCHING A FLAG OR FLAG (CORNER) POST
If the ball or a player carrying the ball touches a flag or a flag (corner) post at the
intersection of the touch m-goal lines and the goal lines or at the intersection of the touch-
m-goal lines and ’he dead ball lines without otherwise being in touch or touch-in-goal the
ball is not out of play unless it is first grounded against a flag post.
165 WORLD RUGBY
Law 22 In-Goal
WOULD
RUGBY.
Player touches corner post before ball is grounded
m w ATTACKING INFRINGEMENT WITH SCRUM SANCTION
If an attacking player commits an infringement in in-goal, for which rhe sanction is a scrum,
for example, a knock-on. play is restarted with a 5 metre scrum The scrum is formed in line
w th the place of the infringement and the defending team throws in the ba I
222.1	A DEFENDING INFRINGEMENT WITH SCRUM SANCTION
If a defending player infringes in in goal, for which the sanction is a scrum, for example, a
knock-on. play is restarted with a 5-metre scrum. The scrum is formed in line with the place
of the infringement and the attacking team throws in the ball.
222.15 DOUBT ABOUT GROUNDING
If there is doubt about which team first grounded the ball in the in-goal, p'ay is re-started by
a 5-metre scrum, in line with rhe place where the ball was grounded The attacking team
throws in the ball
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
2016
166
WORLD
RUGBY.
Law 22 In-Goal
22.16	INFRINGEMENTS IN IN-GOAL
All infringements in the in-goal are treated as if they had taken place in the field of play.
A knock-on or a throw forward in the in-goal results In a 5-metre scrum, opposite the place
of infringement.
Sanction- For an infringement, the mark for a pena; -or* • kick cannot be in the in-
goal When a penalty kick or free kick is awarded for. • ring ent in the In goal, the
mark for the kick is in the field of play. 5 metres fron /oal . opposite the place of
infringement.
22.17	MISCONDUCTOR UNFAIR PLAY IN IN-GOAL
(a)	Obstruction by the attacking team When a player charges or intentionally obstructs an
opponent in the m-goal who has just kicked the ball, the opponent s team may choose to
take the penalty kick e.ther in the field of play. 5 metres from the goal line opposite the
place of infringement, or where the ball landed
if they make the second choice and the ball lands in or near touch, the mark for the penalty
kick is 15 metres from the touchline, opposite where the ball went into touch or where it
landed
A try is disallowed and a penally kick awarded if a try would probably not have been scored
but for foul play by the attacking team
(b)	Foul play by the defending team. The referee awards a penalty try if a try would probably
have been scored but for foul play by the defending team.
The referee awards a penalty try if a try would probably have been scored in a better
position but for foul play by the defending team
A penalty try is awarded between the goal posts The defending team may charge the
conversion kick after a penalty try
A player who prevents a try being scored through foul play must either be cautioned and
temporarily suspended or sent off.
(c)	Any other foul play. When a player commits any other foul play in the m-goal while the
ba’I is out of play, the penalty kick is awarded at the place where the game would otherwise
have re started.
Sanction Penalty kick
16/ WORLD RUGBY