THE LAWS OF THE GAME.

1. A Drop Kick or Drop is made by letting the ball fall from the hands, and kicking it the very instant it rises.

2. A Place Kick or Place is made by kicking the ball after it has been placed in a nick made in the ground for the purpose of keeping it at rest.

3. A Punt is made by letting the ball fall from the hands and kicking it before it touches the ground.

4. Each Goal shall be composed of two upright posts, exceeding 11 feet in height from the ground, and placed 18 feet 6 inches apart, with a cross-bar 10 feet from the ground.

5. A Goal can only be obtained by kicking the ball from the field of play direct (i.e., without touching the ground or the dress or person of any player of either side) over the cross-bar of the opponents’ goal, whether it touch such cross-bar, or the posts, or not; but if the ball goes directly over either of the goal posts it is called a poster and is not a goal. A goal may be obtained by any kind of kick except a punt.

6. A try is gained when a player touches the ball down in his opponents’ goal.

7. A match shall be decided by a majority of goals, but if the number of goals be equal or no goal be kicked, by a majority of tries. If no goal be kicked or try obtained, the match shall be drawn. When a goal is kicked from a try the goal only is scored.

8. The ball is dead when it rests absolutely motionless on the ground.

9. A Touch down is when a player, putting his hand upon the ball on the ground in touch or in goal, stops it so that it remains dead or fairly so.

10. A Tackle is when the holder of the ball is held by one or more players of the opposite side.

11. A Scrummage takes place when the holder of the ball, being in the field of play, puts it down on the ground in front of him, and all who have closed round on their respective sides endeavour to push their opponents back, and, by kicking the ball, to drive it in the direction of the opposite goal line. A scrummage ceases to be a scrummage when the ball is in Touch or Goal.

12. A player may take up the ball whenever it is rolling or bounding, except in a scrummage.

13. It is not lawful to take up the ball when dead (except in order to bring it out after it has been touched down in touch or in goal) for any purpose whatever; whenever the ball shall have been so unlawfully taken up it shall at once be brought back to where it was so taken up and there put down.

14. In a scrummage it is not lawful to touch the ball with the hand under any circumstances whatever.

15. It is lawful for any player who has the ball to run with it, and if he does so, it is called a run. If a player runs with the ball until he gets behind his opponents’ goal line and there touches it down, it is called a run in.

16. It is lawful to run in anywhere across the goal line.

17. The goal line is in goal, and the touch line is in touch.

18. In the event of any player holding or running with the ball being tackled, and the ball fairly held, he must at once cry down, and immediately put it down.

19. A Maul in Goal is when the holder of the ball is tackled inside the goal line, or being tackled immediately outside, is carried or pushed across it, and he or the opposite side, or both, endeavour to touch the ball down. In all cases the ball, when so touched down, shall belong to the players of the side who first had possession of it before the maul commenced, unless the opposite side have gained entire possession of it.

20. In case of a maul in goal, those players only who are touching the ball with their hands when it crosses the goal line, may continue in the maul in goal, and when a player has once released his hold of the ball after it is inside the goal line, he may not again join in the maul, and if he attempts to do so he may be dragged out by the opposite side.

But if a player when running in is tackled inside the goal line, then only the player who first tackled him, or if two or more tackle him simultaneously, they only may join in the maul.

21. Touch in Goal (see plan). Immediately the ball, whether in the hands of a player or not, goes into touch in goal, it is at once dead and out of the game, and must be brought out as provided by Rules 41 and 42.

PLAN OF THE FIELD.

P P

Touch     THE Field of Play.     Touch

The Touch Lines and Goal Lines should be cut out of the Turf.

The field of play must not exceed 110 yards in length nor 75 yds. in breadth, and should be as near those dimensions as practicable.

22. Every player is on side, but is put off side if he enters a scrummage from his opponents’ side, or, being in a scrummage, gets in front of the ball, or when the ball has been kicked, touched, or is being run with by any of his own side behind him (i.e. between himself and his own goal line). No player can be off side in his own goal.

23. Every player when off side is out of the game and shall not touch the ball in any case whatever, either in or out of touch or goal, or in any way interrupt or obstruct any player, until he is again on side.

24. A player being off side is put on side when the ball has been run five yards with, or kicked by, or has touched the dress or person of any player of the opposite side, or when one of his own side has run in front of him either with the ball or having kicked it when behind him.

25. When a player has the ball, none of his opponents who at the time are off side may commence or attempt to run, tackle or otherwise interrupt such player until he has run five yards.

26. Throwing back. It is lawful for any player who has the ball to throw it back towards his own goal or to pass it back to any player of his own side who is at the time behind him, in accordance with the rules of on side.

27. Knocking on, i.e. deliberately hitting the ball with the hand, and Throwing forward, i.e. throwing the ball in the direction of the opponents’ goal line, are not lawful. If the ball be either knocked on or thrown forward, the captain of the opposite side may (unless a fair catch has been made as provided by the next rule), require to have it brought back to the spot where it was so knocked or thrown on, and there put down.

28. A Fair Catch is a catch made direct from a kick or a throw forward, or a knock on by one of the opposite side, or from a punt out or a punt on (see Rules 29 and 30), provided the catcher makes a mark with his heel at the spot where he has made the catch, and no other of his own side touch the ball. (See Rules 43 and 44).

29. A Punt out is a punt made after a touch down, by a player from behind his opponents’ goal line, towards his own side, who must stand outside the goal line and endeavour to make a fair catch, or to get the ball and run in or drop a goal. (See Rules 49 and 51).

30. A Punt on is a punt made in a manner similar to a punt out, and from touch if necessary, by a player who has made a fair catch from a punt out, or another punt on.

31. Touch. (See Plan). If the ball goes into touch, the first player on his side who touches it down must bring it to the spot where it crossed the touch line; or if a player when running with the ball cross or put any part of either foot across the touch line, he must return with the ball to the spot where the line was so crossed; and thence return it into the field of play in one of the modes provided by the following rule. In cases where boundaries beyond the touch line are used, the ball on going over, or touching either boundary, shall belong to the side opposite to that of the player who last touched it in the field of play.

32. He must then himself, or by one of his own side, either (i.) bound the ball in the field of play, and then run with it, kick it, or throw it back to his own side; or, (ii.) throw it out at right angles to the touch line; or, (iii.) walk out with it at right angles to the touch line, any distance not less than five nor more than fifteen yards, and there put it down, first declaring how far he intends to walk out.

33. If two or more players holding the ball are pushed into touch, the ball shall belong in touch to the player who first had hold of it in the field of play, and has not released his hold of it.

34. If the ball when thrown out of touch be not thrown out at right angles to the touch line, the captain of either side may at once claim to have it thrown out again. If the ball be not thrown out straight, the opposite side may at once claim to bring it out themselves as in Law XXXII. (iii.)

35. A catch made when the ball is thrown out of touch is not a fair catch.

36. Kick off is a place kick from the centre of the field of play, and cannot count as a goal. The opposite side must stand at least ten yards in front of the ball until it has been kicked. If the ball pitch in touch, the opposite side may claim to have it kicked off again.

37. The ball shall be kicked off (i.) at the commencement of the game, (ii.) after a goal has been obtained, (iii.) after change of goals at half-time.

38. Each side shall play from either goal for an equal time.

39. The captains of the respective sides shall toss up before the commencement of the match, the winner of the toss shall have the option of choice of goals, or the kick off.

40. Whenever a goal shall have been obtained, the side which has lost the goal shall then kick off. When goals have been changed at half-time, the side which did not kick off at the commencement of the game shall then kick off.

41. Kick out is a drop kick by one of the players of the side which has had to touch the ball down in their own goal or into whose touch in goal the ball has gone (Rule 21), and is the mode of bringing the ball again into play, and cannot count as a goal.

42. Kick out must be a drop kick, and from not more than twenty-five yards outside the kicker’s goal line; if the ball when kicked out pitch in touch, the opposite side may claim to have it kicked off again. The kicker’s side must be behind the ball when kicked out, and the opposite side may not obstruct such kicker within 25 yards of his own goal line.

43. A player who has made and claimed a fair catch shall thereupon either take a drop kick or a punt, or place the ball for a place kick.

44. After a fair catch has been made, the opposite side may come up to the catcher’s mark and (except in cases under Rule 50), the catcher’s side retiring, the ball shall be kicked from such mark, or from a spot any distance behind it in a straight line, parallel with the touch-lines.

45. A player may touch the ball down in his own goal at any time.

46. A side having touched the ball down in their opponents’ goal shall try at goal either by a place kick or a punt out.

47. If a Try at Goal be made by a place kick, a player of the side which has touched the ball down shall bring it up to the goal line (subject to Rule 48), in a straight line from, and opposite to, the spot where the ball was touched down, and there make a mark on the goal line, and thence walk straight out with it at right angles to the goal line, such distance as he thinks proper, and there place it for another of his side to kick. The kicker’s side must be behind the ball when it is kicked, and the opposite side must remain behind their goal line until the ball has been placed on the ground. (See Rules 54 and 55).

48. If the ball has been touched down between the goal posts, it must be brought out in a straight line from either of such posts.

49. If the try at goal be by a punt out (see Rule 29), a player of the side which has touched the ball down shall bring it straight up to the goal line opposite to the spot where it was touched down, and there make a mark on the goal line and then punt out. The opposite side must keep behind their goal line until the ball has been kicked. (See Rules 54 and 55).

50. If a fair catch be made from a punt out or a punt on, the catcher may either proceed as provided by Rules 43 and 44, or himself take a punt on, in which case the mark made on making the fair catch shall be regarded (for the purpose of determining as well the position of the player who makes the punt on as of the other players of both sides), as the mark made on the goal line, in the case of a punt out.

51. A catch made in touch from a punt out or a punt on is not a fair catch; the ball must then be taken or thrown out of touch as provided by Rule 32; but if the catch be made in touch in goal, the ball is at once dead, and must be kicked out as provided by Rules 41 and 42.

52. When the ball has been touched down in the opponents’ goal, none of the side in whose goal it has been so touched down, shall touch it, or in any way displace it, or interfere with the player of the other side who may be taking it up or out.

53. The ball is dead whenever a goal has been obtained, but if a try at goal be not successful, the kick shall be considered as only an ordinary kick in the course of the game.

54. Charging, i.e., rushing forward to kick the ball or tackle a player is lawful for the opposite side, in case the player who is bringing the ball out after a try at goal has been obtained (see Rules 47 and 48) shall fail to make a mark on the goal-line in all cases of a place kick after a fair catch or upon a try at goal, immediately the ball touches or is placed on the ground; and in cases of a drop kick or punt after a fair catch, as soon as the player having the ball commences to run or offers to kick, or the ball has touched the ground; but he may always draw back, and unless he has dropped the ball or actually touched it with his foot, they must again retire to his mark (see Rule 56). The opposite side in the case of a punt out or a punt on, and the kicker’s side in all cases may not charge until the ball has been kicked. Except in a scrummage it is not lawful for a player to charge against or obstruct any opponent unless such opponent is holding the ball, or such player is himself running at the ball.

55. If a player, having the ball, when about to punt it out, goes outside the goal-line, or when about to punt on, advances nearer to his own goal-line than his mark, made on making the fair catch, or if after the ball has been touched down in the opponents’ goal or a fair catch has been made, more than one player of the side which has so touched it down or made the fair catch, touch the ball before it is again kicked, the opposite side may charge at once.

56. In cases of a fair catch, the opposite side may come up to and charge from anywhere on or behind a line drawn through the mark made by the player who has made the catch, and parallel to their own goal-line; but in the case of a fair catch from a punt out or a punt on, they may not advance further in the direction of the touch line nearest to such mark than a line drawn through such mark to their goal line and parallel to such touch line. In all cases (except a punt out and a punt on) the kicker's side must be behind the ball when it is kicked, but may not charge until it has been kicked.

57. No Hacking or Hacking Over, or tripping up shall be allowed under any circumstances. No one wearing projecting nails, iron plates, or gutta percha on any part of his boots or shoes shall be allowed to play in a match.

58. In the case of any law being broken or any irregularity of play occurring on the part of either side not otherwise provided for, the opposite side may claim that the ball be taken back to the place where the breach of law or irregularity of play occurred, and a scrummage formed there.

59. That unless Umpires be appointed, the Captains of the respective sides shall be the sole arbiters of all disputes, and their decisions shall be final. If the Captain of either side challenge the construction placed upon any rule he shall have the right of appeal to the Rugby Union Committee.

60. Neither half time nor no side shall be called until the ball is fairly held or goes out of play, and in the case of a try or fair catch, the kick at goal shall be allowed.

A SEVERE WINTER EXPECTED BY
THE METEOROLOGISTS.

JAMES LILLYWHITE, FROWD & Co.,
Will have on Sale on and after November 1st,
AN IMMENSE STOCK OF SKATES
Of the latest and most Improved Patterns,
and by the best Manufacturers,
AT REMARKABLY LOW PRICES!

VERY HANDSOME NICKEL-PLATED
SKATES, SUITABLE for PRESENTS, &c.

Excellent Steel-Bladed Skates, Children’s sizes, 8 or 9 inches long, from 4/6 per pair.
Ditto, ditto, Ladies’ or Gents’ sizes, 5/6 per pair.
Extra Quality, Club pattern, ditto, from 8/6 to 15/-.
The “Acme,” and other improved self-fastening Skates, from 10/6 per pair.

------♦------

Please Note the Addresses—
Manufactory and Warehouses—
LONDON:
4 & 6, NEWINGTON CAUSEWAY,
AND
73 & 74, BOROUGH ROAD, S.E.

WEST END HOUSE:
18, COCKSPUR STREET, CHARING CROSS, S.W.

LAWN TENNIS OUTFITS.

------♦------

JAMES LILLYWHITE, FROWD & Co.,
Have for some time past been devoting special attention to the production of Lawn Tennis Goods, and can now offer the latest and most improved pattern articles at very moderate prices, either separately or in complete sets.

Lawn Tennis Sets, complete in Boxes, £1 10s., £2 2s., £3 3s., £4 4s., £5 5s. and £6 6s.
Good light Tennis Racquets, 5/6 to 8/6.
Superior full-size Club Tennis Racquets, 10/6 to 17/6.
Cork-handled ditto, 12/6 to 21/-.
Presentation Racquets, with inlaid handles, 15/- to 30/-.
Lawn Tennis Balls of every conceivable variety, per dozen, 3/6 to 15/-.
Court Markers of the most approved patterns.
Lawn Tennis Nets, Poles, Boxes, &c., &c.

Illustrated Price Lists Gratis and Post Free.
5 per Cent. discount on Cash payments of £1.

------♦------

Please Note the Addresses—
Manufactory and Warehouses—
LONDON:
4 & 6, NEWINGTON CAUSEWAY,
AND
73 & 74, BOROUGH ROAD, S.E.

WEST END HOUSE:
18, COCKSPUR STREET, CHARING CROSS, S.W.