THE LAWS OF THE GAME OF RUGBY FOOTBALL
with
INSTRUCTIONS AND NOTES ON THE LAWS
as framed by
The International Rugby Football Board

24. Off-side
A. In General Play
B. At Scrummage
C. At Ruck or Maul
D. At Line-out
25. On-side
26. Foul Play
27. Penalty Kick
28. Free Kick
Index
IRFB Directives
RFU Rulings
RFU U19 Law Interpretations/Variations
IRFB Standard Set of Variations to the Laws of the Game at U19 Level
Administrative Notes for Guidance of Referees (including Referee Signals)

FOR YOUR INFORMATION
1) Law changes are indicated by a black line in the left-hand margin.
2) The “Notes to the Laws” have been placed next to the individual Law to which the Note pertains. The Laws are printed in black with associated penalties in red; the Notes are in blue. To avoid confusion the numbers designating each note are in ROMAN instead of ARABIC numerals.
3) P in the margin means penalty kick for infringement. F.K. in the margin means free kick for infringement.
4) IRFB Standard Set of Variations to the Laws of the Game at U19 Level and RFU Law Interpretations/Variations for Season 1993/94 are indicated by a black line and U19 in the left-hand margin.
5) E.V. in the margin means experimental variation for the Season 1993/94 only.

LAWS OF THE GAME OF RUGBY FOOTBALL

OBJECT OF THE GAME
The Object of the Game is that two teams of fifteen players each, observing fair play according to the Laws and a sporting spirit, should by carrying, passing, kicking and grounding the ball score as many points as possible, the team scoring the greater number of points to be the winner of the match.

DECLARATION OF AMATEURISM
The Game is an amateur game. No one is allowed to seek or to receive payment or other material reward for taking part in the Game.

ILLEGAL AND FOUL PLAY
It is the duty of Unions to ensure that the Game at every level is conducted in accordance with disciplined and sporting behaviour. This principle cannot be upheld solely by the referee; its observance also rests on Unions, affiliated bodies and clubs.

DEFINITIONS
The following terms have the meaning assigned to them:
Beyond or Behind or In front of any position implies “with both feet”, except when unsuited to the context.
Dead means that the ball is for the time being out of play. This occurs when the referee blows his whistle to indicate a stoppage of play or when an attempt to convert a try is unsuccessful.
Defending Team means the team in whose half of the ground the stoppage of play occurs and the opponents of the defending team are referred to as “the Attacking Team”.
Kick. A kick is made by propelling the ball with the leg or foot (except the heel), from the knee to toe inclusive. If the player is holding the ball, he must propel it out of his hands, or if it is on the ground, he must propel it a visible distance.
Drop Kick. A drop kick is made by letting the ball fall from the hand (or hands) to the ground and kicking it at the first rebound as it rises.
Place Kick. A place kick is made by kicking the ball after it has been placed on the ground for that purpose.
Punt. A punt is made by letting the ball fall from the hand (or hands) and kicking it before it touches the ground.
Mark. The mark is the place at which a free kick or penalty kick is awarded.
Line Through the Mark (or Place). Except where specifically stated otherwise, the words “a line through the mark” or “a line through the place” always means a line parallel to the touch line.
Union means the controlling body under whose jurisdiction the match is played and in the case of an International Match it means the International Rugby Football Board or a Committee thereof.
Other definitions are included in and have effect as part of the Laws.

LAW 1. GROUND.
The field-of-play is the area as shown on the plan, bounded by, but not including, the goal lines and touch lines.
The playing area is the field-of-play and In-goal. The playing enclosure is the playing area and a reasonable area surrounding it.
The Plan, including all words and figures therein, is to take effect as part of these Laws.
The Terms appearing on the Plan are to bear their apparent meaning and to be deemed part of the definitions as if separately included.
(1) All lines shown on the plan must be suitably marked out. The touch lines are in touch. The goal lines are In-goal. The dead-ball line is not in In-goal. The touch-in-goal lines and corner posts are in touch-in-goal. The goal posts are to be erected in the goal lines. The twenty-two metres lines are in the twenty-two metres areas.
(2) The game must be played on a ground of the area (maximum) shown on the plan and marked in accordance with the plan. The surface must be grass-covered or, where this is not available, clay or sand, provided the surface is not of dangerous hardness.
NOTE
(i) Advertising on the surface of the playing area is not permitted.
(3) Any objection by the visiting team about the ground or the way in which it is marked out must be made to the referee before the first kick-off.

LAW 2. BALL.
(1) The ball when new shall be oval in shape, of four panels and of the following dimensions:
Length in line: 280 to 300 mm.
Circumference (end on): 760 to 790 mm.
Circumference (in width): 580 to 620 mm.
Weight: 400 to 440 grams.
NOTE
(i) The ball, at commencement of play, should have a pressure equivalent to 9 1/2 - 10 lb. per square inch (0.6697 - 0.7031 kilograms per square centimetre) at sea level.
(2) The dimensions of the ball may be reduced only for younger schoolboys.
(3) Balls may be specially treated to make them resistant to mud and easier to grip. The casings need not be of leather.
NOTE
(ii) It is permissible to have spare balls available during a match, but a team may not gain or attempt to gain an unfair advantage through their use or by changing them.

LAW 3. NUMBER OF PLAYERS.
(1) A match shall be played by not more than fifteen players in each team.
(2) When a Union authorises matches to be played with fewer than fifteen players, the Laws of the Game shall apply except that there shall be no fewer than three players in a scrummage at all times.
(3) Replacement of players shall be allowed in recognised matches as determined by the Unions having jurisdiction over the match.
(4) In all other matches, a player may be replaced only on account of injury and subject to the following conditions:
(a) Not more than four players in each team may be replaced.
Exceptions:
U19 (b) Up to six players may be replaced
(i) in matches between teams of schoolboys or U19 teams where all players are under age twenty-one, the age limitation being applied from the commencement of the official season of the visited Union.
(ii) in domestic matches as determined by the Union having jurisdiction over the match.
(5) A player who has been replaced must NOT resume playing in the match.
(a) In matches in which a National representative team is playing, a player may be replaced ONLY when, in the opinion of a medical practitioner, the player is so injured that he should not continue playing in the match.
(b) For such competition and other domestic matches as a Union gives express permission an injured player may be replaced:
- on the advice of a medically-trained person;
- where no such person is present;
- with the approval of the referee.
(6) If the referee is advised by a doctor or other medically-trained person or for any other reason considers that a player is so injured that it would be harmful for him to continue playing, the referee shall require the player to leave the playing area. For this purpose the referee may also require a player to leave the field to be examined medically.
(7) Any objection by either team as regards the number of players in a team may be made to the referee at any time but the objection shall not affect any score previously obtained.
NOTE
(i) As soon as a referee becomes aware that a team has more than the correct number of players on the field, he must require the captain of that team to reduce the number of players appropriately.
Attention is drawn to T.B. Resolution 5.7 which states that "A player who has suffered definite concussion should not participate in any match or training session for a period of at least three weeks from the time of the injury, and then only subject to being cleared by a proper neurological examination”.

LAW 4. PLAYERS’ DRESS.
(1) A player must not wear dangerous projections such as buckles or rings.
(2) Shoulder pads of the “harness” type must not be worn. If the referee is satisfied that a player requires protection following an injury to a shoulder, the wearing of a pad of cotton-wool, sponge rubber or similar soft material may be permitted provided the pad is attached to the body or sewn onto the jersey.
(3) Studs of a player’s boots must conform to the British Standard BS 6366: 1983. They must be circular, securely fastened to the boots and of the following dimensions:
Length (maximum) (measured from sole): 18 mm.
Diameter at base (minimum): 13 mm.
Diameter at top (minimum): 10 mm.
Minimum diameter of integral washer: 20 mm.
The wearing of a single stud at the toe of a boot is prohibited.
(4) The referee has power to decide before or during the match that any part of a player’s dress is dangerous. He must then order the player to remove the dangerous part and permit him to resume playing in the match only after it has been removed.
NOTE
(i) The moulded rubber multi-studded sole is acceptable under this Law.

LAW 5. TOSS, TIME.
(1) No-side is the end of a match.
(2) The captains shall toss for the right to kick-off, or the choice of ends.
(3) The duration of play in a match shall be such time not exceeding eighty minutes as shall be directed by the Union or, if not agreed, as fixed by the teams. Two periods of forty minutes each shall be played on a match day.
NOTE
(i) The term "not exceeding eighty minutes" excluding any time which the Union may direct or authorise to be played in the case of a match in a knock-out competition.
(3) Play shall be divided into two halves. At half-time the teams shall change ends and there shall be an interval of not more than five minutes.
(4) A period not exceeding one minute shall be allowed for treatment of an injury to a player or for any other permitted delay. A longer period may be allowed only if the additional time is required for the removal of an injured player from the playing area.
Playing time lost as a result of any such permitted delay or of delay in taking a kick at goal shall be made up in that half of the match in which the delay occurred, subject to the power vested in the referee to declare no-side before time has expired.
NOTE
(ii) The referee must make up lost time through any delay in taking a kick at goal. This applies whether or not the referee considers the delay to be “undue delay” on the part of the kicker.
Playing time lost should begin from 40 seconds after the player has indicated his intention to kick at goal.

LAW 6. REFEREE AND TOUCH JUDGES.
A. Referee
(1) There shall be a referee for every match. He shall be appointed by or under the authority of the Union or, in case no such authorised referee has been appointed, a referee may be mutually agreed upon between the teams or, failing such agreement, he shall be appointed by the home team.
(2) If the referee is unable to officiate for the whole period of a match a replacement shall be appointed either in such manner as may be directed by the Union, or in the absence of such direction, by the referee or, if he is unable to do so, by the home team.
(3) The referee shall keep the time and the score, and he must in every match apply fairly the Laws of the Game without any variation or omission, except only when the Union has authorised the application of an experimental Law approved by the International Board.
NOTES
(i) If the referee is in doubt as to the correct time he should consult either or both of the touch judges. Only if the information given by them is insufficient may he consult another person.
(ii) Where the referee allows time for delays the time must be made up in the half of the match in which the delay occurs.
(iv) The referee has power to declare no-side before time has expired if, in his opinion, the full time cannot for any reason be played or continuance of play would be dangerous.
(v) Where a player is injured, the referee should not allow more than one minute’s delay unless a longer period is necessary to remove the player, or to give essential treatment on the playing area. The referee should not allow time for injury if he has reason to believe that a player is feigning injury. In such circumstances he should order the player to be removed immediately from the playing area and then order play to be resumed forthwith.
(vi) The referee should, when the ball is dead, allow time for a player to replace or repair a badly torn jersey or shorts. He must not allow time for a player to re-tie or repair a bootlace.
(4) He must not give any instruction or advice to either team prior to the match. During the match he must not consult with anyone except only:
(a) either or both touch judges on a point of fact relevant to their functions, or on matters relating to Law 26 (3); or
(b) in regard to time.
(5) During a match the referee is the sole judge of fact and of Law. All his decisions are binding on the players. He cannot alter a decision except when given before he observes that a touch judge’s flag is raised or before he has received a report related to Law 26(3) from a touch judge.
(6) The referee must carry a whistle and must blow it:
(a) to indicate the beginning of the match, half-time, resumption of play after half-time, no-side, a score or a touch-down and
(b) to stop play because of infringement or otherwise as required by the LAWS.
NOTES
(vii) The referee has power to stop the match at any time by blowing his whistle but he must not do so except on the occasions indicated in Law 6 A (6) which include the following:
(a) when he orders a scrummage;
(b) when the ball has gone into touch or touch-in-goal, or touched or crossed the dead-ball lines;
(c) when the ball has been grounded in In-goal;
(d) when the ball is unplayable;
(e) when he stops for an offence under Law 26 (3) prior to ordering off or cautioning the offender, and in such a case must whistle a second time when he awards the penalty try or kick;
(f) when he awards a penalty kick or free kick;
(g) when he allows a fair-catch;
(h) when the ball or player carrying it has touched him and one team has therefore gained an advantage;
(i) when a player is injured but only when the ball next becomes dead unless (j) below applies;
(j) when continuation of play would be dangerous, including the collapse of a scrummage.
The referee should whistle for half-time or no-side as soon as time has expired if the ball be dead or if the ball be in play when the time has expired, as soon as the ball next becomes dead. If the ball becomes dead after time has expired:
- as the result of a try the referee shall allow the kick to be taken and then whistle for half-time or no-side; or if it be
- as the result of a fair catch, free kick or penalty kick, the referee shall allow play to proceed until the ball next becomes dead.
If time expires before the ball is put into a scrummage or line-out, or thrown in from touch, the referee must whistle for half-time or no-side.
(7) During a match no person other than the players, the referee and the touch judges may be within the playing enclosure or the playing area unless with the permission of the referee which shall be given only for a special and temporary purpose.
Play may continue during minor injuries with a medically trained person being permitted to come onto the playing area to attend the player or the player going to the touch-line. Continuation of play during minor injuries is subject to the referee’s permission and to his authority to stop play at any time.
At the end of the first half, the referee may allow coaches on the playing area to attend their teams in Under 19 and Schools Rugby. For other teams such authorisation is determined by the Union having jurisdiction over the match.
NOTE
(ix) If the referee decides to stop play in the terms of Section (7) but without an infringement having occurred or without the ball being dead, he should restart play with a scrummage and the ball shall be put in by the team last in possession or otherwise by the attacking team.

For RFU only LAW AMENDMENT 1988
Ruling issued by the Rugby Football Union
The provisions of the second paragraph of Section 7 must be applied in all matches (with the exception of matches between teams aged Under 19 or below) when a medically trained person is in attendance. While domestic matches between teams aged Under 19 or below are excluded, in matches at that level involving teams from other Unions the provisions are to be applied unless it is the policy of the other Union also to exclude such teams from the provision of this Law.
Before the match, the referee must ascertain whether a medically trained person is available and, if he is, shall issue appropriate instructions to him and to the Team Captains.
It is to be noted that in all matches in which these provisions are applied, the referee has a discretion to stop play at any time. He should do so in cases where the injury is other than minor and where the continuation of play is likely to result in danger to players.
NOTE
(x) The referee should, when necessary, but not before, consult the medical person.

(8) (a) All players must respect the authority of the referee and they must not dispute his decisions. They must (except in the case of a kick-off) stop playing at once when the referee has blown his whistle.
(b) A player must when so requested whether before or during the match, allow the referee to inspect his dress.
(c) A player must not leave the playing enclosure without the referee’s permission. If a player retires during a match because of injury or otherwise, he must not resume playing in that match until the referee has given his permission.
(d) A player who has an open or bleeding wound must leave the playing area, until such time as the bleeding is controlled and the wound covered or dressed. Such a player may be replaced on a temporary basis until the wound is covered or dressed but after five minutes the replacement becomes permanent.
NOTES
(xi) Apart from injury, the referee should not allow a player to leave the playing enclosure except in special circumstances. The referee should not permit a player to resume until the ball is dead.
(xii) The referee must not permit a team or individual players to leave the playing area in order to change jerseys.
(xiii) If a player who has retired on account of injury or other reason resumes playing without the permission of the referee, the referee should impose penalties for misconduct if he considers that the offence was wilful for the purpose of assisting his team or obstructing the opponents. If the offence was not wilful interference and if the offending team gains an advantage the referee should order a scrummage at the place where the player resumed playing without permission, and the opposing team shall put in the ball.
Penalty: Infringement by a player is subject to penalty as misconduct.

B. Touch Judges.
(1) There shall be two touch judges for every match. Unless touch judges have been appointed by or under the authority of the Union, it shall be the responsibility of each team to provide a touch judge.
(2) A touch judge is under the control of the referee who may instruct him as to his duties and may over-rule any of his decisions. The referee may request that an unsatisfactory touch judge be replaced and he has power to order off and report to the Union a touch judge who in his opinion is guilty of misconduct.
(3) Each touch judge shall carry a flag (or other suitable object) to signal his decisions. There shall be one touch judge on each side of the ground and he shall remain in touch except when judging a kick at goal.
(4) He must hold up his flag when the ball or a player carrying it has gone into touch and must indicate the place of throw in and which team is entitled to do so. He must also signal to the referee when the ball or a player carrying it has gone into touch-in-goal.
(5) The touch judge shall lower his flag when the ball has been thrown in except on the following occasions when he must keep it raised:
(a) when the player throwing in the ball puts any part of either foot in the field-of-play;
(b) when the ball has not been thrown in by the team entitled to do so;
(c) when, at a quick throw-in, the ball that went into touch is replaced by another or is touched by anyone other than the players.
It is for the referee to decide whether or not the ball has been thrown in from the correct place.
(6) In matches in which a national representative team is playing and in such domestic matches for which a Union gives express permission and where referees recognised by the Union are appointed as touch judges, the touch judge shall report incidents of foul play and misconduct under Law 26(3) to the referee for the match.
A touch judge shall signal such an incident to the referee by raising his flag to a horizontal position pointing directly across the field at a right angle to the touch line. The touch judge must remain in touch and continue to carry out his other functions until the next stoppage in play when the referee shall consult him regarding the incident. The referee may then take whatever action he deems appropriate and any consequent penalties shall be in accordance with Law 26(3).
NOTE
(xiv) After a touch judge has signalled an incident under Law 26(3) he may enter the field-of-play at the next stoppage to report to the referee.
(7) When a kick at goal from a try, or penalty kick is being taken both touch judges must assist the referee by signalling the result of the kick. One touch judge shall stand at or behind each of the goal posts and shall raise his flag if the ball goes over the cross bar.

LAW 7. MODE OF PLAY.
A match is started by a kick-off, after which any player who is on-side and provided he does so in accordance with these Laws may at any time:
- catch or pick up the ball and run with it,
- pass, throw or knock the ball to another player,
- kick or otherwise propel the ball,
- tackle, push or shoulder an opponent holding the ball,
- fall on the ball,
- take part in scrummage, ruck, maul or line-out,
- ground the ball in In-goal.
NOTE
(i) A player may hand the ball to another player of his own team.

LAW 8. ADVANTAGE.
The referee shall not whistle for an infringement during play which is followed by an advantage gained by the non-offending team. An advantage must be either territorial or such possession of the ball as constitutes an obvious tactical advantage. A mere opportunity to gain advantage is not sufficient.
NOTES
(i) The referee is given a wide discretion as to what constitutes an advantage and is not limited to a territorial advantage. The referee is the sole judge of whether an advantage has been gained.
(ii) Neither team may gain an advantage from the following circumstances:
(a) when the ball or a player carrying it touches the referee (Law 9 (1));
(b) when the ball emerges from either end of the tunnel at a scrummage not having been played (Law 20, note (xix));
(iii) When any irregularity of play not provided for in the Laws occurs, a scrummage shall be formed where the irregularity occurred. In deciding which team should put in the ball, the referee should apply Law 20(7).

LAW 9. BALL OR PLAYER TOUCHING REFEREE.
(1) If the ball or a player carrying it touches the referee in the field-of-play, play shall continue unless the referee considers either team has gained an advantage in which case he shall order a scrummage. The team which last played the ball shall put it in.
(a) If the ball in a player’s possession or a player carrying it touches the referee in that player’s In-goal, a touch-down shall be awarded.
(b) If a player carrying the ball in his opponent’s In-goal touches the referee before grounding the ball, a try shall be awarded at that place.
NOTES
(i) If the ball, while in play in In-goal at either end but not held by a player, touches the referee, a touch judge or a spectator, a touch-down shall be awarded provided that a touch-down would otherwise have been obtained or the ball would have gone into touch-in-goal or on or over the dead-ball line.
(ii) If the ball while in play in In-goal at either end, but not held by a player, touches the referee, a touch judge or a spectator, a try shall be awarded at the place provided an attacking player would otherwise have scored it.
(iii) When the ball touches a spectator in either of the above cases, if the referee is in doubt, the award shall be made to the visiting team if that team is the defending team under (i) or the attacking team under (ii).

LAW 10. KICK-OFF.
A kick-off is a drop kick taken from the centre of the half-way line: (a) by the non-kicking team to start the match or by the opposing team to start the second half; or (b) a drop-out from the centre of the half-way line by a defending team after the opposing side has scored.
(1) The ball must be kicked from the correct place and by the correct form of kick; otherwise it shall be kicked off again.
(2) The ball must reach the opponents’ ten metres line, unless first played by an opponent; otherwise it shall be kicked off again, or a scrummage formed at the centre, at the opponents’ option. If it reaches the ten metres line and is then blown back, play shall continue.
(3) If the ball is kicked directly into touch, the opposing team may accept the kick, have the ball kicked off again, or have a scrummage formed at the centre.
(4) If the ball crosses the opposing team’s goal-line from a kick-off, without touching or being touched by a player, the opposing team has the option of grounding the ball, making it dead, or playing on. If the opposing team does not play on then they will have the option of either having a scrummage formed at the centre of the half-way line, with the put in, or having the other team kick-off again.
(5) The kicker’s team must be behind the ball when kicked; otherwise a scrummage shall be formed at the centre.
(6) The opposing team must stand on or behind the ten metres line. If they are in front of that line or if they charge before the ball has been kicked, it shall be kicked off again.
NOTE
(i) The use of sand, sawdust or an approved kicking tee is permitted for placing the ball.

LAW 11. METHOD OF SCORING.
Try. A try is scored by first grounding the ball in the opponents’ In-goal.
A try shall be awarded if one would probably have been scored but for foul play by the opposing team.
Goal. A goal is scored by kicking the ball over the opponents’ cross-bar and between the goal posts from the field-of-play by any place kick or drop kick, except a kick-off, drop-out or free-kick, without touching the ground or any player of the kicker’s team.
A goal is scored if the ball has crossed the bar, even though it may have been blown backwards afterwards, and whether it has touched the cross-bar or either goal post or not.
A goal is scored if the ball has crossed the bar notwithstanding a prior offence of the opposing team.
A goal may be awarded if the ball is illegally touched by any player of the opposing team and if the referee considers that a goal would otherwise probably have been scored.
The scoring values are as follows:
A try: 5 points
A goal scored after a try: 2 points
A goal from a penalty kick: 3 points
A dropped goal otherwise obtained but not taken in lieu of a free kick: 3 points

LAW 12. TRY AND TOUCH-DOWN.
Grounding the ball is:
(a) by a player holding the ball (or hands) or arm (or arms) or the body (above the waist) bringing the ball in contact with the ground, while the ball is in contact with the ground;
(b) while the ball is on the ground either:
- places his hand (or hands) or arm (or arms) on it with downward pressure; or
- falls upon it and the ball is anywhere under the front of his body from waist to neck inclusive.
Picking up the ball from the ground is not grounding it.

A. Try.
(1) A player who is on-side scores a try when:
- he carries the ball into his opponents’ In-goal; or
- the ball is in his opponents’ In-goal AND he first grounds it there.
(2) The scoring of a try includes the following cases:
(a) if a player carries, passes, knocks or kicks the ball into his In-goal and an opponent first grounds it;
(b) if, at a scrummage or ruck, a team is pushed over its goal line and before the ball has emerged it is first grounded in In-goal by an attacking player;
(c) if the momentum of a player, when tackled, carries him into his opponents’ In-goal and he first there grounds the ball;
(d) if a player first grounds the ball on his opponents’ goal line or if the ball is in contact with the ground and a goal post;
(e) if a tackle occurs in such a position that the tackled player whilst complying with the Law is able to place the ball on or over the goal line.
(3) If a player grounds the ball in his opponents’ In-goal and picks it up again, a try is scored where it was first grounded.
A try may be scored by a player who is in touch or in touch-in-goal provided he is not carrying the ball.

B. Penalty Try.
A penalty try shall be awarded between the posts if but for foul play by the defending team:
- a try would probably have been scored; or
- it would probably have been scored in a more favourable position than that where the ball was grounded.

C. Touch-Down.
(1) A touch-down occurs when a player first grounds the ball in his In-goal.
(2) After a touch-down play shall be restarted either by a drop-out or a scrummage.

D. Scrummage after Grounding In Case of Doubt.
Where there is doubt as to which team first grounded the ball in In-goal, a scrummage shall be formed five metres from the goal line opposite the place where the ball was grounded. The attacking team shall put in the ball.

LAW 13. KICK AT GOAL AFTER A TRY.
(1) After a try has been scored, the scoring team has the right to kick at goal, on a line through the place where the try was scored.
(2) If a kick is taken:
(a) it must be taken without undue delay;
(b) a player including the kicker may place the ball;
(c) the kicker’s team, except the placer, must be behind the ball when kicked;
(d) if the kicker kicks the ball from a placer’s hands without the ball being on the ground, the kick is void;
(e) the opposing team must be behind the goal line until the kicker begins his run or offers to kick when they may charge or jump with a view to preventing a goal.
(3) Neither the kicker nor a placer shall wilfully do anything which may lead the opposing team to charge prematurely. If either does so, the charge shall not be disallowed.
Penalty:
- For an infringement by the kicker’s team - the kick shall be disallowed.
- For an infringement by the opposing team - the charge shall be disallowed. If, however, the kick has been taken successfully, the goal shall stand. If it was unsuccessful, the kicker may take another kick under the original conditions without the charge and may change the type of kick.
NOTES
(i) In addition to the general provision regarding waste of time, the kicker is bound to kick without delay, under penalty.
A player should not be permitted to be unreasonably slow in taking any kick at goal. A period of one minute between the indication of intention to kick at goal and the actual kick is well inside the zone of “undue delay”. A player who is unreasonably slow, should be warned that if he persists in delay, penalties will be applied.
Even without a caution, if the delay is clearly a breach of Law, the kick should be disallowed and a kick-off ordered.
(ii) The referee must always make up time lost by any delay in taking the kick, as is provided for in note (ii) under Law 5.
(iii) The referee should see that the opposing players do not gradually creep up and that they have both feet behind the goal line, otherwise he should disallow the charge.
(iv) Shouting by the defending team during a kick at goal should be treated as misconduct and, if no goal is scored, another kick should be allowed without the charge.
(v) When another kick is allowed for any reason, all the original preliminaries may be retaken.
(vi) If the ball rolls over and away from the line through the place where the try was scored and the ball is kicked over the crossbar, a goal should be awarded.
(vii) If, after the kicker has commenced his run, the ball rolls over into touch another kick under the original conditions should not be allowed.
(viii) The kick must be taken with the ball which was in play unless the referee decides that the ball is defective.
(ix) The use of sand, sawdust or an approved kicking tee is permitted for placing the ball.

LAW 14. IN-GOAL
In-goal is the area bounded by a goal-line, touch-in-goal lines and dead-ball line. It includes the goal-lines and goal posts but excludes touch-in-goal lines and dead-ball line.
Touch-in-goal occurs when the ball or player carrying it touches a cornerpost or a touch-in-goal line or the ground or a person or object on or beyond it. The flag is not part of the corner post.

Five Metres Scrummage
(1) A five metre scrummage is a scrummage formed five metres from the goal-line opposite the place where the ball became dead in In-goal, but no closer than five metres from the touch line. The attacking team shall put in the ball.
(2) If a player carrying the ball in In-goal is so held that he cannot ground the ball, the ball becomes dead.
NOTE
(i) If play similar to a maul takes place in In-goal, Law 14(2) applies.
(3) A five metres scrummage shall be formed:
(a) If a defending player heels, kicks, carries, passes or knocks the ball into his In-goal, and it there becomes dead without an infringement having occurred, except where:
- a try is scored; or
- he wilfully knocks or throws the ball from the field-of-play into touch-in-goal or over his dead-ball line; or
(b) if a defending player carrying the ball in the field-of-play is forced into his In-goal and he then touches down; or
(c) if, at a scrummage or ruck a defending team, with the ball in its possession, is pushed over its goal-line and before the ball has emerged first grounds it in In-goal.
(4) Except where the ball is knocked on or thrown forward in the field of play or in In-goal, if an attacking player kicks, carries or passes the ball and it travels into his opponents’ In-goal either directly or having touched a defender who does not wilfully attempt to stop, catch or kick it, and it is there:
- grounded by a defending player; or
- goes into touch-in-goal or over the dead-ball-line;
a drop-out shall be awarded.

Penalties
(a) A penalty try shall be awarded when by foul play in In-goal the defending team has prevented a try which otherwise would probably have been scored.
(b) A try shall be disallowed and a penalty kick awarded, if a try would probably not have been gained but for foul play by the attacking team.
(c) For foul play in In-goal while the ball is out of play the penalty kick shall be awarded at the place where play would otherwise have restarted and, in addition, the player shall either be ordered off or cautioned that he will be sent off if he repeats the offence.
(d) For charging or obstructing in In-goal a player who has just kicked the ball to the penalty:
- a penalty kick in the field-of-play five metres from the goal line opposite the place of infringement, or at the option of the non-offending team;
- a penalty kick where the ball alights as provided under Law 26 (3) Penalty (ii) (b).
(e) For other infringements in In-goal, the penalty shall be the same as for a similar infringement in the field-of-play except that the mark for a penalty kick or free kick shall be in the field-of-play five metres from the goal line opposite the place of infringement and the place of any scrummage shall be five metres from the goal-line opposite the place of infringement but not within five metres of the touch line.
NOTE
(ii) If from a free kick or penalty kick taken in In-goal the ball is made dead by the defending team before it has crossed the goal-line, a scrummage shall be awarded to the attacking team five metres from the goal-line opposite to where it was made dead.

LAW 15. DROP-OUT.
A drop-out is a drop kick awarded to the defending team.
(1) The drop kick must be taken from anywhere on or behind the twenty two metres line; otherwise the ball shall be dropped out again.
(2) The ball must cross the twenty two metres line, otherwise the opposing team may have it dropped out again, or have a scrummage formed at the centre of the twenty two metres line. If it crosses the twenty two metres line and is then blown back, play shall continue.
NOTE
(i) If the ball does not cross the twenty two metre line and an opponent picks up the ball and grounds it over the kicker’s goal line, a try should be awarded.
(3) If the ball is kicked directly into touch, the opposing team may accept the kick, have the ball dropped out again, or have a scrummage formed at the centre of the twenty two metres line.
(4) The kicker’s team must be behind the ball when kicked; otherwise a scrummage shall be formed at the centre of the twenty two metres line.
(5) The opposing team must not charge over the twenty two metres line; otherwise the ball shall be dropped out again.
NOTES
(ii) If a player of the opposing team remains beyond or crosses the twenty two metres line for the purpose of delaying or interfering with the player who is about to drop-out, a penalty under Law 26(3)(ii) should be awarded.
(iii) The advantage Law applies where the drop-kick does not reach the twenty two metres line and goes into touch.

LAW 16. FAIR-CATCH (MARK)
(a) A player makes a fair-catch when in his twenty-two metre area, or In-goal, he having at least one foot on the ground, cleanly catches the ball directly from an opponent’s kick and at the same time he exclaims “Mark!”.
A fair catch may be obtained even though the ball on its way touches a goal post or crossbar and can be made in In-goal.
(b) A free kick is awarded for a fair-catch.
(1) The kick must be taken by the player making the fair-catch, unless he is injured in so doing. If he is unable to take the kick within one minute a scrummage shall be formed at the mark. His team shall put in the ball.
(2) If the mark is in In-goal any resultant scrummage shall be five metres from the goal line on a line through the mark.
NOTE
(i) If an opponent unfairly charges the catcher in the playing area after the referee has blown his whistle for a fair catch, a penalty kick shall be awarded.

LAW 17. KNOCK-ON OR THROW-FORWARD.
A knock-on occurs when the ball travels forward towards the direction of the opponents’ dead-ball line after:
- a player loses possession of it; or
- a player propels or strikes it with his hand or arm; or
- it strikes a player’s hand or arm and touches the ground or another player before it is recovered by the player.
A throw-forward occurs when a player carrying the ball throws or passes it in the direction of his opponents’ dead-ball line. A throw-in from touch is not a throw-forward. If the ball is not thrown or passed forward but it bounces forward after hitting a player or the ground, it is not a throw-forward.
NOTE
(i) A pass throw or knock-on should not be adjudged an infringement unless it is clearly so under Law. If there is any doubt, play should be allowed to proceed.
(1) The knock-on or throw forward must not be intentional.
Penalty: Free kick at the place of infringement or in accord with Law 14, Penalty (e).(2) If the knock-on or throw-forward is unintentional, a scrummage shall be formed either at the place of infringement or, if it occurs at a line-out, fifteen metres from the touch line along the line-of-touch unless: -
♦ the ball is knocked on by a player who is in the act of charging down the kick of an opponent but is not attempting to catch the ball; or
♦ the ball is knocked on one or more times by a player who is in the act of catching or picking it up or losing possession of it and is recovered by that player before it has touched the ground or another player.
NOTE
(ii) If an attacking player knocks-on or throws forward in the field-of-play and the ball travels into In-goal either directly or after having touched a defender who does not wilfully attempt to stop, catch or kick it, and it is there:
(a) grounded by a player of either team; or
(b) goes into touch-in-goal or over the dead-ball line;
a scrummage should be awarded at the place of the knock-on or throw-forward.

LAW 18. TACKLE, LYING WITH, ON OR NEAR THE BALL.
A tackle occurs when a player carrying the ball in the field-of-play is held by one or more opponents so that while he is so held he is brought to the ground or the ball comes into contact with the ground. If the ball carrier is on one knee, or both knees, or is sitting on the ground, or is on top of another player who is on the ground, the ball carrier is deemed to have been brought to the ground.
(1) (a) A tackled player must immediately pass the ball or release the ball and get up or move away from the ball.
(b) After a tackle any other player must be on his feet when he plays the ball.
(c) A player who goes to the ground and gathers the ball or with the ball in his possession but who is not tackled must immediately get up on his feet with the ball or pass the ball or release the ball and get up or move away from the ball.

A pass, throw or knock-on should not be adjudged an infringement unless it is clearly so under Law. If there is any doubt, play should be allowed to proceed.
(1) The knock-on or throw forward must not be intentional.
Penalty:- Free kick at the place of infringement or in accord with Law 14, Penalty (e).
(2) If the knock-on or throw-forward is unintentional, a scrummage shall be formed either at the place of infringement or, if it occurs at a line-out, fifteen metres from the touch line along the line-of-touch unless: -
♦ the ball is knocked on by a player who is in the act of charging down the kick of an opponent but is not attempting to catch the ball; or
♦ the ball is knocked on one or more times by a player who is in the act of catching or picking it up or losing possession of it and is recovered by that player before it has touched the ground or another player.
NOTE
(ii) If an attacking player knocks-on or throw-forward in the field-of-play and the ball travels into In-goal either directly or after having touched a defender who does not wilfully attempt to stop, catch or kick it, and it is there:
(a) grounded by a player of either team; or
(b) goes into touch-in-goal or over the dead-ball line;
a scrummage should be awarded at the place of the knock-on or throw-forward.

LAW 18. TACKLE, LYING WITH, ON OR NEAR THE BALL.
A tackle occurs when a player carrying the ball in the field-of-play is held by one or more opponents so that while he is so held he is brought to the ground or the ball comes into contact with the ground. If the ball carrier is on one knee, or both knees, or is sitting on the ground, or is on top of another player who is on the ground, the ball carrier is deemed to have been brought to the ground.
(1) (a) A tackled player must immediately pass the ball or release the ball and get up or move away from the ball.
(b) After a tackle any other player must be on his feet when he plays the ball.
(c) A player who goes to the ground and gathers the ball or with the ball in his possession but who is not tackled must immediately get up on his feet with the ball or pass the ball or release the ball and get up or move away from the ball.
(2) It is illegal for any player:-
(a) to prevent a tackled player from passing or releasing the ball, or getting up or moving away after he has passed or released it;
(b) to pull the ball from a tackled player's possession or attempt to pick up the ball before the tackled player has released it;
(c) while lying on the ground after a tackle to play or interfere with the ball in any way or to tackle or attempt to tackle an opponent carrying the ball;
(d) to wilfully fall on or over a player lying on the ground with the ball in his possession;
(e) to wilfully fall on or over players lying on the ground with the ball between them, or in close proximity; or
(f) while lying on the ground in close proximity to the ball to prevent an opponent from gaining possession of it.
(3) A player must not fall on or over the ball emerging from a scrummage or ruck.
Penalty:- Penalty kick at the place of infringement.
(4) A try may be scored if the momentum of a player carries him into his opponent’s In-goal even though he is tackled.
NOTES
(i) The requirement to release the ball allows a player to put the ball on the ground in any direction (but not in a forward direction), provided the action is immediate.
(ii) It is not a tackle if the ball carrier is lifted by an opponent so that both his feet are off the ground.
(iii) If a tackled player does not pass or release the ball immediately and the referee is in doubt as to responsibility for failure to pass or release it, he should at once order a scrummage.
(iv) If a tackle occurs in such a position that the tackled player whilst complying with the Law, is able to place the ball on or over the goal line he may do so to obtain a try or a touch-down. In such circumstances an opposing player may attempt to prevent the try or touch-down by pulling the ball from the player in possession, but must not kick the ball.
(v) If a tackle occurs near the goal line, and the ball, having being released by the tackled player, goes into the In-goal, any player of either team may ground the ball and need not be on his feet in these circumstances.
(vi) Danger may arise if a tackled player fails to pass or release or move away from the ball at once or is prevented from doing so. In such cases the referee should not delay in awarding a penalty kick.
(vii) Advantage shall be played only if it occurs immediately.
(viii) Close proximity means within one metre.

LAW 19. LYING WITH, ON OR NEAR THE BALL.
The requirements of this Law are now incorporated into Law 18.

LAW 20. SCRUMMAGE
A scrummage, which can take place only in the field-of-play, is formed by players from each team closing up in readiness to allow the ball to be put on the ground between them but is not formed within five metres of the touch line. If the ball in a scrummage is on or over the goal line the scrummage is ended.
The middle player in each front row is the hooker, and the players on either side of him are the props.
The middle line means an imaginary line on the ground directly beneath the line formed by the junction of the shoulders of the two front rows.
Forming a Scrummage
(1) A team must not wilfully delay the forming of a scrummage.
(2) Every scrummage shall be formed at the place of infringement or as near thereto as is practicable within the field-of-play. It must be stationary with the middle line parallel to the goal lines until the ball has been put in.
Before commencing engagement each front row must be in a crouched position with heads and shoulders no lower than their hips. They must be within one arm's length of their opponents. The referee will then call “crouch”, “touch”, “pause”, “engage” and each front row should engage on the call “engage” given by the referee.
NOTES
(i) If it is necessary, the scrummage is to be moved to the place of infringement so that the scrummage is formed in the field-of-play.
(ii) When the place of infringement is within five metres of a touch line the scrummage is to be formed five metres from that touch line.
(iii) The referee shall mark the place of engagement with his foot before the scrummage is formed.
(iv) A crouched position is the extension of the normal stance by bending the knees sufficiently to step into the engagement without a charge.
(3) It is dangerous play for a front row to form down some distance from its opponents and rush against them.
NOTE
(v) The referee should not call the front rows to engage until the ball is in the hands of the player putting in the ball and is available to be put in immediately. This call is not a command, but an indication that the front rows may engage when ready.
(4) A minimum of five players from each team shall be required to form a scrummage. While the scrummage is in progress a minimum of five players shall remain bound on the scrummage until it ends. Each front row shall have three players in it at all times. The head of a player in the front row shall not be next to the head of a player of the same team.
(5) (a) While a scrummage is forming:
* the shoulders of each player in the front row must not be lower than his hips;
* all players in each front row must adopt a normal stance;
* both feet must be on the ground and not crossed;
* the hookers must be in a hooking position;
* a hooker’s foot must not be in front of the forward feet of his props.
(b) While the scrummage is taking place, players in each front row must have their weight firmly on at least one foot and be in a position for an effective forward shove and the shoulders of each player must not be lower than his hips.
(c) When five players of a team form the scrummage the two players in the second row must remain bound to each other until the scrummage ends.
NOTES
(vi) The restriction on the crossing of the feet of the players in the front rows refers only to the feet of individual players. The feet of all players in the front rows must be in a position for an effective forward shove.
(vii) A hooking position is where a hooker in the scrummage has both feet on the ground, the weight retained firmly on one foot and in a position to hook or strike the ball.
(viii) A flanker in the second or third row of a pack may bind at an angle provided he is fully bound and he is emerging from the scrummage and he moves outwards, thereby preventing an opponent from advancing around the scrummage; a penalty kick should be awarded.
(ix) In the event of a scrummage collapsing the referee should whistle immediately so that players do not continue to push. The referee should also whistle immediately if any player in the scrummage is lifted off his feet or is forced upwards out of the scrummage.
(x) The scrummage is ended if the ball in the scrummage is on or over the goal-line or when the ball emerges.
(6) Binding of Players
(a) The players of each front row shall bind firmly and continuously while the scrummage is forming, while the ball is being put in and while it is in the scrummage.
(b) The hooker may bind either over or under the arms of his props but, in either case, he must bind firmly around their bodies at or below the level of the armpits. The props must bind the hooker similarly. The hooker must not be supported so that he is not carrying any weight on either foot.
(c) The outside (loose head) prop must either (i) bind his opposing (tight head) prop with his left arm inside the right arm of his opponent, or (ii) place his left hand or forearm on his left thigh. The tight-head prop must bind with his right arm outside the left upper arm of his opposing loose-head prop. He may grip the jersey of his opposing loose-head prop with his right hand but only to keep himself and the scrummage steady and he must not exert a downward pull.
(d) All players in a scrummage, other than those in a front row, must bind with at least one arm and hand around the body of another player of the same team.
(e) No outside player other than a prop may hold an opponent with his outer arm.
(7) Putting the Ball Into the Scrummage
When an infringement occurs the team not responsible shall put in the ball. In all other circumstances, unless otherwise provided, the ball shall be put in by the team which was moving forward prior to the stoppage or, if neither team was moving forward, by the attacking team.
NOTE
(xi) It is permissible for the outside (loose-head) prop to alter his binding with his left arm, within the provisions of Law 20(6)(c), at any time during a scrummage.
(8) The ball shall be put in without delay as soon as the two front rows have closed together. A team must put in the ball when ordered to do so and on the side first chosen.
NOTES
(xii) In the interests of safety, the referee has authority to permit delay in putting in the ball if a player in the front row has not succeeded in getting his head into position but otherwise he should ensure that there is no delay.
(xiii) A free kick should be awarded if the referee is satisfied that the delay by the team in putting the ball in is deliberate and prejudices the other team.
(9) The player putting in the ball shall:
(a) stand one metre from the scrummage and midway between the two front rows;
(b) hold the ball with both hands midway between the two front rows at a level midway between his knee and ankle;
(c) from that position put in the ball:
* without any delay or without feint or backward movement, i.e. with a single forward movement; and
* at a quick speed straight along the middle line so that it first touches the ground immediately beyond the width of the nearer prop’s shoulders.
(10) Play in the scrummage begins when the ball leaves the hands of the player putting it in.
(11) If the ball is put in and it comes out at either end of the tunnel, it shall be put in again, unless a free kick or penalty kick has been awarded. If the ball comes out otherwise than at either end of the tunnel and if a penalty kick has not been awarded play shall proceed.
NOTE
(xiv) Advantage applies as soon as the ball has been put into the scrummage and played.
(12) Restrictions on Front Row Players
All front row players must place their feet so as to allow a clear tunnel. A player must not prevent the ball being put into the scrummage, or from touching the ground at the required place.
(13) No front row player may raise or advance a foot until the ball has left the hands of the player putting it into the scrummage.
NOTE
(xv) Until any foot is permitted to be raised or advanced, that foot must be kept in the normal position.
(14) When the ball has touched the ground, any foot of any player in either front row may be used in an attempt to gain possession of the ball subject to the following: -
players in the front rows must not at any time during the scrummage, wilfully
(a) raise both feet off the ground at the same time; or
(b) adopt a position or take any action, by twisting or lowering the body or by pulling on an opponent’s dress, which is likely to cause the scrummage to collapse; or
(c) trip an opponent off his feet or force him upwards out of the scrummage; or
(d) direct the ball out of the tunnel in the direction from which it is put in.
NOTES
(xvi) The prohibition against a player in the front row raising both feet off the ground at the same time or striking at the ball with both feet applies during the whole scrummage and not merely to the period while the ball is being put in.
(xvii) Referees must be strict in applying penalties for wilfully kicking out. Repeated kicking out must be treated as wilful.
(xviii) When the referee orders the ball to be put in again it must be put in by a player of the same team that was first entitled to do so.
(xix) If the ball is about to pass straight through the tunnel and a far prop advances a foot so that the ball passes behind the foot, the ball must be put in again unless it has been lawfully played (i.e. touched) by a player in the front row.
(15) Restrictions on Players
Any player who is not in either front row must not play the ball while it is in the tunnel.
(16) A player must not: -
(a) return the ball into the scrummage; or
(b) handle the ball in the scrummage except in the act of obtaining a “push over” try or touchdown; or
(c) pick up the ball in the scrummage by hand or legs; or
(d) wilfully collapse the scrummage; or
(e) wilfully fall or kneel in the scrummage; or
(f) attempt to gain possession of the ball in the scrummage with any part of the body except the foot or lower leg.
NOTE
Referees must be strict in penalising for the wilful collapsing of the scrummage as stated under Law 20(16)(d) and Law 26(3)(h).
(17) (a) The player putting in the ball and his immediate opponent must not kick the ball while it is in the scrummage.
(b) Neither of the players referred to in (a) should take any action while the ball is in the scrummage to convey to the opponents that the ball is out of the scrummage.
(18) A scrummage must not be wheeled beyond a position where the middle line becomes parallel to the touchline. The scrummage will be reformed at the site of the stoppage, the ball to be put in by the side that has gained possession or otherwise by the same team.
NOTES
(xxi) If in a scrummage a player whose feet are the “hindmost” feet in that scrummage ceases to be bound while the ball is at his feet, the scrummage is over since the ball is deemed to be out of the scrummage.
(xxii) If a player repeatedly infringes he must be dealt with under Law 26(2).
Penalty:- (a) For an infringement of paragraphs (1), (2), (4), (5), (6) (d) and (e), (8), (9), (12), (13), (14)(d), (15), (16)(a)(b), (c) and (f) and (17) (a) and (b), a free kick at the place of infringement.
(b) For an infringement of paragraphs (3), (6) (a), (b) and (c), (14) (a)(b) and (c), or (16) (d) and (e), a penalty kick at the place of infringement.
For Off-side at Scrummage see Law 24B.

LAW 21. RUCK.
A ruck which can take place only in the field-of-play, is formed when the ball is on the ground and one or more players from each team are on their feet and in physical contact, closing around the ball between them. If the ball in a ruck is on or over the goal line the ruck is ended.
(1) A player joining a ruck must have his head and shoulders no lower than his hips. He must bind with at least one arm around the body of a player of his team in the ruck.
Penalty:- Free kick at the place of infringement.
NOTE
(i) The placing of a hand on another player is not binding. Binding involves the whole arm, from hand to shoulder.
(2) A player must not: -
(a) return the ball into the ruck;
Penalty:- Free kick at the place of infringement.
(b) handle the ball in the ruck except in the act of securing a try or touch-down; or
(c) pick up the ball in the ruck by hand or legs; or
(d) wilfully collapse the ruck; or
(e) jump on top of other players in the ruck; or
(f) wilfully fall or kneel in the ruck; or
(g) while lying on the ground interfere in any way with the ball in or emerging from the ruck. He must do his best to roll away from it.
Penalty:- For (b) to (g) a penalty kick at the place of infringement.
(3) When the ball in a ruck becomes unplayable a scrummage shall be ordered and the ball shall be put in by the team NOT in possession at the commencement of the ruck, except where the referee is unable to determine which team was in possession, then the ball shall be put in by the team which was moving forward prior to the stoppage or, if neither team was moving forward, by the attacking team.
For Off-side at Ruck see Law 24C.

LAW 22. MAUL.
A maul, which can take place only in the field-of-play, is formed by one or more players from each team on their feet and in physical contact closing round a player who is carrying the ball.
A maul ends when the ball is on the ground or the ball or a player carrying it emerges from the maul or when a scrummage is ordered. If the ball in a maul is on or over the goal line the maul is ended.
(1) A player joining a maul must have his head and shoulders no lower than his hips.
Penalty:- Free kick at the place of infringement.
(2) A player must not: -
(a) jump on top of players in a maul;
(b) wilfully collapse a maul;
(c) attempt to drag another player out of a maul.
Penalty:- Penalty kick at the place of infringement.
(3) A player is not in physical contact unless he is caught in or bound to the maul and not merely alongside it.
(4) (a) When the ball in a maul becomes unplayable or a maul becomes stationary a scrummage shall be ordered and the ball shall be put in by the team NOT in possession at the commencement of the maul, except where the referee is unable to determine which team was in possession then the ball shall be put in by the team which was moving forward prior to the stoppage or, if neither team was moving forward, by the attacking team.
(b) If a player catches the ball direct from a kick by an opponent and is immediately held so that a maul ensues and the ball becomes unplayable or the maul becomes stationary his team shall put in the ball at the ensuing scrummage.
NOTES
(i) Before whistling for a scrummage, the referee should allow a reasonable time for the ball to emerge from the maul, particularly if either team is moving forward. If in his opinion the ball will probably not emerge from the maul without delay, he should not allow prolonged wrestling for the ball but should order a scrummage. If the maul has become stationary, but the ball is being moved and can be seen by the referee he should similarly allow a reasonable time for the ball to emerge.
(ii) If any player in a maul goes to the ground, including being on one knee or both knees or is sitting on the ground, a scrummage is to be ordered unless the ball is immediately available for the continuation of play.
For Off-side at Maul see Law 24C.

LAW 23. TOUCH AND LINE-OUT.
A. Touch.
(1) The ball is in touch:
* when it is not being carried by a player and it touches a touch line or the ground or a person or object on or beyond it; or
* when it is carried by a player and it or the player carrying it touches a touch line or ground beyond it.
(2) A player who is in touch may kick the ball or pass it to a player in the field-of-play but must not hold it.
(3) The ball is deemed to have been kicked directly into touch or touch-in-goal if, from a kick, it is in touch without having pitched on the playing area or without having touched or been touched in flight by a player or the referee.
(4) A player who is not in touch and has not crossed the plane of the touch line may kick the ball or bat it into the playing area.
NOTES
(i) (a) If the ball is kicked directly into touch from a kick-off and the opposing team elects to accept the kick, the line-out shall be formed:
(i) at the half-way line; or
(ii) where the ball went into touch if the place be nearer to the kicker’s goal-line.
(b) If the ball is kicked directly into touch from a drop-out and the opposing team elects to accept the kick, the line-out shall be formed where the ball went into touch.
(ii) On or beyond the touch line or touch-in-goal line refers to all areas except the playing area.
(iii) It is not touch or touch-in-goal when a player with both feet in the playing area catches the ball, even though the ball before being caught has crossed the touch line or touch-in-goal line. Such a player may deflect or tap the ball into the playing area provided it is not propelled forward. If a player jumps and catches the ball his feet must land in the playing area.

B. Line-out.
The line-of-touch is an imaginary line in the field-of-play at right angles to the touch line through the place where the ball is thrown in.
Formation of Line-out.
(1) A line-out is formed by at least two players from each team lining up in single lines parallel to the line-of-touch in readiness for the ball to be thrown in between them. The team throwing in the ball shall determine the maximum number of players from either team who so line up. Such players are those “in the line-out”, unless excluded below.
NOTE
(iv) Prior to the beginning of the line-out, a free kick should be awarded for offences in forming the line-out, including wilfully failing to form a line-out or to line up at least two players.
(2) Each team must line up at least half a metre on its side of the line-of-touch, so as to leave a clear space of one metre between the two lines of players.
NOTE
(v) The distance of one metre for the clear space is between the shoulders of the players when standing upright.
(3) The line-out stretches from five metres from the touch line from which the ball is being thrown in to a position fifteen metres from that touch line.
(4) Any player of either team who is further than fifteen metres from the touch line when the line-out begins is not in the line-out.
NOTE
(vi) If, at a formed line-out, the team throwing in the ball line up less than the normal number, their opponents must be given a reasonable opportunity to conform. Opposing players who are retiring for that purpose must do so directly and without delay to a line ten metres behind the line-of-touch. Loiterers must be penalised. Subject to this, when the line-out is ended players so retiring may rejoin play, even if they have not reached the ten metres line.

Throwing in the Ball
(5) When the ball is in touch the place at which it must be thrown in is as follows: -
(a) When the ball goes into touch from a penalty kick; or from a kick including a free kick taken within twenty-two metres of the kicker’s goal line, at the place where it touched or crossed the touch line, except as otherwise provided.
(b) When the kicker has received the ball outside his twenty two metres line and retreated behind that line before kicking, and on all other occasions when the ball is kicked directly into touch, after having been kicked otherwise than as stated in (a), opposite the place from which the ball was kicked or at the place where it touched or crossed the touch line if that place be nearer to the kicker’s goal-line.
(c) When a quick throw-in is taken, from any point along the touch line between where the ball went into touch and the goal-line of the team throwing in the ball.
(d) Otherwise when the ball is in touch, at the place where the ball touched or crossed the touch line.
(6) (a) When kicked into touch from a penalty kick, the ball will be thrown in at the line-out by the team which kicked the ball into touch.
(b) Otherwise the ball is to be thrown in by an opponent of the player whom it last touched, or by whom it was carried before being in touch.
(c) In the event of doubt as to which team should throw in the ball, the attacking team shall do so.
(d) The player throwing in the ball must not put any part of either foot in the field-of-play.
(7) The ball may be brought into play at a formed line-out or by a quick throw-in without waiting for players to form a line-out.
(8) At a formed line-out the ball must be thrown in at the place indicated in (5) so that it first touches the ground or touches or is touched by a player at least five metres from the touch line along the line-of-touch.
(9) At a quick throw-in, the ball that went into touch must be used and, after going into touch, it must have been handled only by the player throwing it in. The throw must be straight along the line-of-touch for a distance of not less than five metres.
(10) If any of the foregoing requirements for throwing in the ball are infringed, the opposing team shall have the right, at its option, to throw in the ball or to take a scrummage. If the requirements are infringed at a quick throw-in, then the opposing team’s options, to throw in the ball or to take a scrummage, shall be at the place where the quick throw-in occurred.
If, on the second occasion, the ball is not thrown in correctly, a scrummage shall be formed and the ball shall be put in by the team which threw it in on the first occasion.
NOTE
(vii) If a player wilfully or repeatedly throws the ball in not straight, a penalty kick should be awarded. If at a formed line-out a player delays or feints to throw the ball in a free kick should be awarded.

Beginning and end of Line-out
(11) The line-out begins when the ball leaves the hands of the player throwing it in.
(12) The line-out ends when:
* a ruck or maul is taking place and all feet of players in the ruck or maul have moved beyond the line-of-touch; or
* a player carrying the ball leaves the line-out; or
* the ball has been passed, knocked back or kicked from the line-out; or
* the ball is thrown beyond a position fifteen metres from the touch line; or
* the ball becomes unplayable.
NOTES
(viii) If a player participating in a line-out hands the ball to another player who is peeling-off from the line-out, the line-out ends when the second player takes the ball.
(ix) When the ball has been passed or knocked back from a line-out, the line-out is ended. Players in front of a player of their own team who receives the ball from the line-out may be off-side but they should only be penalised under Law 24A if they play the ball or obstruct an opponent in any way.
(x) A ruck or maul has not moved from the line-of-touch unless all the feet of the players in the ruck or maul have moved beyond that line.

Peeling Off
“Peeling off” occurs when a player (or players) moves from his position in the line-out for the purpose of catching the ball when it has been passed or knocked back by another of his team in the line-out.
(13) When the ball is in touch players who approach the line-of-touch must always be presumed to do so for the purpose of forming a line-out. Except in a peeling off movement such players must not leave the line-of-touch, or the line-out when formed, until the line-out has ended. A player must not begin to peel off until the ball has left the hands of the player throwing it in.
Exception: At a quick throw-in, when a player may come to the line-of-touch and retire from that position without penalty.
(14) In a peeling off movement a player must move parallel and close to the line-out.
(15) Restrictions on Players In Line-out
When the ball has been thrown in and has touched the ground or touched or been touched by a player, any player in the line-out must not:
(a) be off-side; or
(b) use any opponent as a support to enable him to jump for the ball or push, charge, shoulder or obstruct an opponent; or
(c) use any player of his team as a support to enable him to jump for the ball or lift any player of his team or bind with any player of his team; or
(d) stand within five metres of the touch line or prevent the ball from being thrown five metres.
NOTES
(xi) Law 23B(8) (a) is not an alternative to Law 23B(15) (d). The first is an obligation on the thrower, the second is an obligation on the receiver. If a player prevents the ball from reaching five metres it must always be penalised by a free kick.
(xii) Any movement of a player beyond a position fifteen metres from the touch line must be solely for the purpose of catching or jumping to catch the ball. The player may move in-field in an attempt to catch the ball only after it leaves the hand of the player throwing it in.
(xiii) A player acting as scrum-half may not stand or move beyond a position fifteen metres from the touch line before the ball has passed that position unless he moves to anticipate a long throw-in but he may so move only in accordance with the conditions in the preceding Note (xii).
(16) When jumping for the ball a player must use both hands or his inside arm to catch or deflect the ball.
(17) After the ball has touched the ground or touched or been touched by a player, any player in the line-out must not:
(a) be off-side; or
(b) hold, push, shoulder or obstruct an opponent not holding the ball; or
(c) charge an opponent except in an attempt to tackle him or to play the ball.
(18) Except when jumping for the ball or peeling off, a clear space of one metre must be left between the two lines of players until the ball has touched or has been touched by a player or has touched the ground.
NOTE
(xiv) The act of jumping for the ball may include a step or steps in any direction provided it takes the jumper up to but not across the line-of-touch.
(19) A player in the line-out may move into the space between the touch line and the five metres mark only when the ball has been thrown beyond him and, if he does so, he must not move towards his goal line before the line-out ends, except in a peeling off movement.
(20) Until the line-out ends, no player may move beyond a position fifteen metres from the touch line except as allowed when the ball is thrown beyond that position in accordance with the Exception following Law 24 D (1) (c).
(21) Any player participating in the line-out as defined in Law 24 D may move out of the line-out and take the ball provided he does not charge or obstruct an opponent in the line-out.
(22) Restrictions on Players not in Line-out
Players of either team who are not in the line-out may not advance from behind the line-out and take the ball from the throw-in, except only a player advancing at a long throw-in.
Penalty:- (a) For an infringement of paragraphs (1), (2), (3), (4), (13), (14), (15) (c) and (d), (18), (19), a free kick fifteen metres from the touch line along the line-of-touch.
(b) For an infringement of paragraphs 15 (a) and (b), (17), (20), or (21), a penalty kick fifteen metres from the touch line along the line-of-touch.
(c) For an infringement of paragraph (22), a penalty kick on the offending team’s off-side line (as defined in Law 24 D) opposite the place of infringement, but not less than fifteen metres from the touch line.
Place of scrummage:- Any scrummage taken or ordered under this Law or as the result of any infringement in a line-out shall be formed fifteen metres from the touch-line along the line-of-touch.
For off-side at Line-out see Law 24D.
NOTE
(xvi) If a player repeatedly infringes, he must be dealt with under Law 26 (2).

LAW 24. OFF-SIDE.
Off-side means that a player is in a position in which he is out of the game and is liable to penalty.
In general play the player is in an off-side position because he is in front of the ball when it has been last played by another player of his team.
In play at scrummage, ruck, maul or line-out the player is off-side because he remains or advances in front of the line or place stated in, and otherwise infringes, the relevant sections of this Law.

A. Off-side In General Play.
(1) A player is in an off-side position if the ball has been:
* kicked; or
* touched; or
* is being carried by one of his team behind him.
(2) There is no penalty for being in an off-side position unless: -
(a) the player plays the ball or obstructs an opponent; or
(b) he being within ten metres of an opponent waiting to play the ball or of the place where the ball pitches does not retire without delay and without interfering with the opponent; or
(c) he, on all other occasions, moves towards the opponents waiting to play the ball or to the place where the ball pitches, before he is put on-side.
Exceptions:-
(i) When an off-side player cannot avoid being touched by the ball or by a player carrying it, he is “accidently off-side”. Play should be allowed to continue unless the infringing team obtains an advantage, in which case a scrummage should be formed at that place.
(ii) A player who receives an unintentional throw-forward is not off-side.
Penalty:-
(i) Penalty kick at the place of infringement, or, at the option of the non-offending team, a scrummage at the place where the ball was last played by the offending team. If the latter place is In-goal, the penalty kick shall be taken or the scrummage shall be formed five metres from the goal line on a line through the place.
(ii) For an infringement of (2)(c) by more than one player, the place of infringement will be that of the off-side player closest to the player waiting for the ball or to where the ball pitches.
NOTES
(i) A penalty for off-side should not be given at once if the non-offending team gains an advantage or if it appears likely to gain an advantage; but if the expected advantage is not gained, the penalty should in all cases be awarded even if it is necessary to bring play back for that purpose to the place of infringement.
(ii) When a player knocks on and an off-side player of the same team next plays the ball, a penalty for off-side should not be awarded unless the off-side deprives the non-offending team of an advantage.
(iii) A player can be off-side in his In-goal.
(iv) If a player hands the ball to another player of his team in front of him, the second player is off-side.
(v) A scrummage for “accidental off-side” should be awarded unless it is considered the player was wilfully off-side in which case a penalty kick should be awarded.
(vi) The referee should whistle at once if an off-side player who cannot be placed on-side charges within ten metres of an opponent waiting to receive the ball. Delay may prove dangerous to the latter player. Where there is no opponent waiting to play the ball but one arrives as the ball pitches, an off-side player who is near such opponent must not obstruct or interfere with him in any way whatsoever before he is put on-side.
(vii) If an attacking player kicks the ball which is misfielded by an opponent and the ball is then played by another attacking player in an off-side position within ten metres of the opponent, a penalty kick should be awarded.
(viii) If an attacking player kicks the ball which is charged down by an opponent and another attacking player within ten metres of the opponent then plays the ball, play should be allowed to continue. The opponent was not “waiting to play the ball” and the second attacking player is therefore on-side under Law 25(2).
(ix) Law 24A(2) (b) and (c) also apply where the ball has struck a goal-post or cross-bar. Off-side players must not approach or remain within ten metres of an opponent waiting to play the ball or the place where the ball pitches.

B. Off-side at Scrummage
The off-side line for players who are not in the scrummage is an imaginary line parallel to the goal line through the hindmost foot of the player of their team in the scrummage.Law 24
While a scrummage is forming or is taking place:
(1) A player is off-side if:
(a) he joins it from his opponent’s side; or
(b) he not being in the scrummage nor the player of either team who puts the ball in the scrummage:
* fails to retire behind the off-side line or to his goal line whichever is the nearer; or
* places either foot in front of the off-side line while the ball is in the scrummage.

A player may leave a scrummage provided he retires immediately behind the off-side line. If he wishes to rejoin the scrummage, he must do so behind the ball. He may not play the ball as it emerges between the feet of his front row if he is in front of the off-side line.

Exception: The restrictions on leaving the scrummage in front of the off-side line do not apply to a player taking part in “wheeling” a scrummage providing he immediately plays the ball.

(2) A player is off-side if he, being the player of either team who puts the ball in the scrummage, remains, or places either foot in front of the ball while it is in the scrummage.

(3) A player is off-side if he, being the immediate opponent of the player putting in the ball, takes up a position on or moves to the opposite side of the scrummage in front of the off-side line.
Penalty: Penalty kick at the place of infringement.

NOTES
Players must retire without delay to the scrummage off-side line when a scrummage is forming. Loiterers must be penalised.
Any player of either team may at a particular scrummage be the player who puts in the ball or who takes up position as scrum half when his opponent is putting in the ball; but such player is at that scrummage the only player of his team who has the benefit of Law 24B(2).

C. Off-side at Ruck or Maul.
The term “off-side line” means a line parallel to the goal-lines through the hindmost foot of the player’s team in the ruck or maul.

(1) Ruck or Maul otherwise than at line-out.
While a ruck or maul is taking place (including a ruck or maul which continues after a line-out has ended) a player is off-side if he:
(a) joins it from his opponent’s side; or
(b) joins it in front of the off-side line; or
(c) does not join the ruck or maul but fails to retire behind the off-side line without delay; or
(d) unbinds from the ruck or leaves the maul and does not immediately retire behind the off-side line; or if he re-joins the ruck or maul does so from in front of the off-side line; or
(e) advances beyond the off-side line with either foot and does not rejoin the ruck or maul.
Penalty: Penalty kick at the place of infringement.

(2) Ruck or Maul at line-out
The term “participating in the line-out” has the same meaning as in Section D of this Law. A player participating in the line-out is not obliged to join or remain in the ruck or maul and if he is not in the ruck or maul he continues to participate in the line-out until it has ended. While a line-out is in progress and a ruck or maul takes place, a player is off-side if he:
(a) joins the ruck or maul from his opponent’s side; or
(b) joins it in front of the off-side line; or
(c) being a player who is participating in the line-out and is not in the ruck or maul, does not retire to and remain at the off-side line defined in this Section;
Penalty: Penalty kick fifteen metres from the touch line along the line-of-touch.
(d) being a player who is not participating in the line-out, remains or advances with either foot in front of the off-side line defined in Section D of this Law.
Penalty: Penalty kick on the offending team’s off-side line (as defined in Section D of this Law) opposite the place of infringement but not less than fifteen metres from the touch line.

NOTE
(xi) When the line-out has ended but the ruck or maul is still taking place, a player is off-side if he infringes Section (1) of these Laws.

D. Off-side at Line-out.
The term “participating in the line-out” refers exclusively to the following players:
* those players who are in the line-out; and
* the player who throws in the ball; and
* his immediate opponent who may have the option of throwing in the ball; and
* one other player of either team who takes up position to receive the ball if it is passed or knocked back from the line-out.
All other players are not participating in the line-out.
The term “off-side line” means a line ten metres behind the line-of-touch and parallel to the goal lines or, if the goal line be nearer than ten metres to the line-of-touch, the “off-side line” is the goal line.

Off-side while participating in Line-out
(1) A participating player is off-side if:
(a) before the ball has touched a player or the ground he wilfully remains or advances with either foot in front of the line-of-touch, unless he advances while jumping for the ball provided that the jump is made from his side of the line-of-touch; or
(b) after the ball has touched a player or the ground, if he is not carrying the ball, he advances with either foot in front of the ball, unless he is lawfully tackling or attempting to tackle an opponent who is participating in the line-out. Such tackle or attempt to tackle must, however, start from his side of the ball; or
(c) before the line-out ends he moves beyond a position fifteen metres from the touch line.
Exception: Players of the team throwing in the ball may move beyond a position of fifteen metres from the touch line for a long throw-in to them. They may do so only when the ball leaves the hand of the player throwing it in and if they do so their opponents participating in the line-out may follow them. If players so move and the ball is not thrown to or beyond them they must be penalised for off-side.
Penalty: Penalty kick fifteen metres from the touch line and along the line-of-touch.

NOTES
(xii) Players who advance beyond the off-side line or who move beyond a position fifteen metres from the touch line in the expectation of a long throw-in must be penalised if, for any reason, the ball is not thrown beyond that position.
(xiii) A player jumping unsuccessfully for the ball who crosses the line-of-touch should be given an opportunity to retire before being penalised.
(xiv) The referee should be strict in dealing with those players who, while not disputing possession of the ball in the line-out, advance to an off-side position whether intentionally or not.

(2) The player throwing in the ball and his immediate opponent must:
(a) remain within five metres of the touch line; or
(b) retire to the off-side line; or
(c) join the line-out after the ball has been thrown in five metres; or
(d) move into position to receive the ball if it is passed or knocked back from the line-out provided no other player is occupying that position at that line-out.
Penalty: Penalty kick fifteen metres from the touch line along the line-of-touch.

NOTE
(xv) If a player other than the wing three-quarter throws in the ball from touch, the wing three-quarter must retire to the off-side line, or join the line-out.

Off-side while not participating in line-out
(3) A player who is not participating is off-side if before the line-out has ended he advances or remains with either foot in front of the off-side line.
Exception: Players of the team throwing in the ball who are not participating in the line-out may advance for a long throw-in to them beyond the line-out. They may do so only when the ball leaves the hand of the player throwing in the ball and, if they do, their opponents may advance to meet them. If players so advance for a long throw-in to them and the ball is not thrown to them they must be penalised for off-side.

NOTE
(xvi) If a player not participating in the line-out is offside, the referee should not whistle immediately if the opposing team is likely to gain an advantage; the referee should apply the advantage Law.

Players returning to “on-side” position
(4) A player is not obliged, before throwing in the ball, to wait until players of his team have returned to or behind the line-out but such players are off-side unless they return to an on-side position without delay.
Penalty: Penalty kick on the offending team’s off-side line opposite the place of infringement, but not less than fifteen metres from the touch line.

NOTE
(xvii) Scrummage, ruck, maul and line-out - where these Laws state a line which determines the off-side position such line stretches continuously from touch line to touch line.

LAW 25. ON-SIDE.
On-side means that a player is in the Game and not liable to penalty for off-side.

Player made on-side by action of his team
(1) Any player who is off-side in general play becomes on-side as a result of any of the following actions of his team:
* when the off-side player, without infringing Law 24A(2) has retired behind the player of his team who last kicked, touched or carried the ball; or
* when one of his team carrying the ball has run in front of him; or
* when one of his team has run in front of him after coming from the place or from behind the place where the ball was kicked.
In order to put the off-side player on-side, this other player must be in the playing area. But he is not debarred from following up in touch or touch-in-goal.

An off-side player who is within ten metres of an opponent waiting to play the ball or where a ball pitches, must retire and continue to do so up to ten metres until he is put on-side. If he does not do so, he must be penalised.

Player made on-side by action of opposing team
(2) Any player who is off-side in general play, except an off-side player within ten metres of an opponent waiting to play the ball or where the ball pitches, becomes on-side as a result of any of the following actions:
* when an opponent carrying the ball has run five metres; or
* when an opponent kicks or passes the ball; or
* when an opponent intentionally touches the ball and does not catch or gather it.
An off-side player within ten metres of an opponent waiting to play the ball or where the ball pitches, cannot be put on-side by any action of his opponents. Any other off-side player in general play is always put on-side when an opponent plays the ball.

Player retiring at scrummage, ruck, maul or line-out
(3) A player who is in an off-side position when a scrummage, ruck, maul or line-out is forming or taking place, as required by Law 24 (Off-side) becomes on-side when:
* an opponent carrying the ball has run five metres; or
* when an opponent has kicked the ball.
An off-side player in this situation is not put on-side when an opponent passes the ball.

NOTES
(ii) The referee should be careful to ensure that no benefit under Law 25(2) is gained by loiterers who wilfully remain in an off-side position and thereby prevent opponents from running with, kicking, passing or otherwise playing the ball.
(iii) When a team has gained quick possession from a scrummage, ruck, maul or line-out and starts a passing movement, opponents who are retiring must not be allowed to interfere with the movement unless the conditions of Law 25(3) exist. Referees should be strict in applying this.

LAW 26. FOUL PLAY.
Foul Play is any action by a player which is contrary to the letter and spirit of the Game and includes obstruction, unfair play, misconduct, dangerous play, unsporting behaviour, retaliation and repeated infringements.

Obstruction
(1) It is illegal for any player:
(a) who is running for the ball to charge or push an opponent running for the ball, except shoulder to shoulder;
(b) who is in an off-side position wilfully to run or stand in front of another player of his team who is carrying the ball, thereby preventing an opponent from reaching the latter player;
(c) who is carrying the ball after it has come out of a scrummage, ruck, maul or line-out, to attempt to force his way through the players of his team in front of him;
(d) who is an outside player in a scrummage or ruck to prevent an opponent from advancing round the scrummage or ruck.
Penalty: Penalty kick at the place of infringement. A penalty try may be awarded.

NOTES
(i) There are no circumstances in which a player carrying the ball can be penalised for obstruction.
(ii) The referee should note that:
(a) The intention of this Law as regards the penalties to be imposed for serious forms of obstruction must be applied.
(b) If a player is guilty of charging or obstructing or holding an opponent who is not carrying the ball or any other form of foul play, before any other action is taken the player must at once be cautioned or ordered off. If he offends a second time, the referee has no alternative to ordering him off. If the offence prevents a try which probably would otherwise have been scored, a penalty try must be awarded.
(c) The intention of the International Board is that if the referee has any doubt as to the balance of probability, he should give the benefit of the doubt in favour of the non-offending team and award the penalty.

Unfair Play, Repeated Infringements
(2) It is illegal for any player:
(a) deliberately to play unfairly or wilfully infringe any Law of the Game;
(b) wilfully to waste time;
(c) wilfully to knock or throw the ball from the playing area into touch, touch-in-goal or over the dead-ball line;
(d) to infringe repeatedly any Law of the Game.
Penalty: For (b) and (c) a free kick, and for (a) and (d) a penalty kick at the place of infringement. A penalty try may be awarded. For offences under (2) (c) occurring in In-goal, Law 14 penalty (e) applies. For offences under (2) (d) a player may be cautioned and, if he repeats the offence, must be ordered off.

Misconduct, Dangerous Play
(3) It is illegal for any player:
(a) to strike an opponent;
(b) wilfully to hack or kick an opponent or trip him with the foot, or to trample on an opponent lying on the ground;
(c) to tackle early, late or dangerously, including the action known as a “stiff arm tackle”;
(d) who is not running for the ball wilfully to charge or obstruct an opponent who has just kicked the ball;
(e) to hold, push, charge, obstruct or grasp an opponent not holding the ball except in a scrummage, ruck or maul;
(Except in a scrummage or ruck the dragging away of a player lying close to the ball is permitted. Otherwise pulling any part of the clothing of an opponent is holding.)
(f) in the front row of a scrummage to form down some distance from the opponents and rush against them;
(g) in the front row of a scrummage wilfully to lift an opponent off his feet or force him upwards out of the scrummage;
(h) wilfully to cause a scrummage, ruck or maul to collapse;
(i) while the ball is out of play to molest, obstruct or in any way interfere with an opponent or be guilty of any form of misconduct;
(j) to commit any misconduct on the playing area which is prejudicial to the spirit of good sportsmanship.

Penalty: A player guilty of misconduct and dangerous play shall either be ordered off or else cautioned that he will be ordered off if he repeats the offence. For a similar offence after caution, the player must be ordered off. In addition to a caution or ordering off a penalty try or a penalty kick shall be awarded as follows:
(i) If the offence prevents a try which would otherwise probably have been scored, a penalty try shall be awarded.
(ii) The place for a penalty kick shall be:
(a) For offences other than under paragraphs (d) and (i), at the place of infringement.
(b) For an infringement of (d) the non-offending team shall have the option of taking the kick at the place of infringement or where the ball alights; and if the ball alights:
* in touch, the mark is fifteen metres from the touch line on a line parallel to the goal lines through the place where it went into touch; or
* within fifteen metres from the touch line, it is fifteen metres from the touch line on a line parallel to the goal lines through the place where it alighted; or
* in In-goal, touch-in-goal, or over or on the dead-ball line, it is five metres from the goal line on a line parallel to the touch line through the place where it crossed the goal line or fifteen metres from the touch line whichever is the greater.
When the offence takes place in touch the “place of infringement” in the optional penalty award is fifteen metres from the touch line opposite to where the offence took place.
If the offence takes place in touch-in-goal, the “place of infringement” in the optional penalty award is in the field-of-play five metres from the goal-line and fifteen metres from the touch line.
(c) For an offence under (i), at any place where the ball would next have been brought into play if the offence had not occurred, or, if that place is on or beyond the touch line, fifteen metres from that place on a line parallel to the goal lines.
(iii) For an infringement in In-goal, a penalty kick is to be awarded as provided for under Law 14 Penalties.
(iv) For an offence under Law 26(3) (i), the penalty kick is to be taken at whichever is the place where play would restart, that is:
* at the twenty two metre line (at any point the non-offending team may select); or
* at the centre of the half-way line; or
* if a scrummage five metres from the goal line would otherwise have been awarded, at the place fifteen metres from the touch line on a line five metres from and parallel to the goal line, whichever is the greater.
(v) For an offence which occurs outside the playing area while the ball is still in play and which is not otherwise covered in the foregoing, the penalty kick shall be awarded in the playing area fifteen metres from the touch line and opposite to where the offence took place.
(vi) For an offence reported by a touch judge under Law 6B(6) a penalty kick may be awarded where the offence occurred or advantage may be played.

NOTES
“Playing the man without the ball” and all forms of dangerous tackling including early, late and stiff arm “tackling” or attempting to tackle a player around the neck or head or above the line of the shoulders MUST be punished severely. Players who wilfully resort to this type of foul play must be ordered off the field. Advantage should be played, but a penalty try must be awarded if the dangerous tackle prevents a probable try.
It is for the referee to decide what constitutes a dangerous tackle, having regard to the circumstances, e.g., the apparent intentions of the tackler, or the nature of the tackle, or the defenceless position of the player being tackled or knocked over, which may be the cause of serious injury.
The following actions constitute dangerous play:
(a) if a player charges or knocks down an opponent carrying the ball without any attempt to grasp him (as in a tackle);
(b) if a player taps or pulls the foot or feet of another player who is jumping in a line-out for the ball;
(c) if a player attempts to tackle a player who, when fielding a kick in open play, is off the ground jumping for the ball.
A player shall not “take the Law into his own hands” nor wilfully do anything that is dangerous to an opponent even if the latter is infringing the Laws.
If a player is obstructed after kicking the ball and the ball strikes a goal post, the optional penalty should be awarded where the ball alights after bouncing off the post.
If a penalty kick has been awarded and, before the kick has been taken, the offending team infringes Law 26(3)(i), the referee should:
(a) caution or order off the player guilty of misconduct; and
(b) in addition advance the mark for the penalty kick ten metres, this to cover both the original infringement and the misconduct.
If a penalty kick is awarded to a team and before the kick is taken, a player of that team infringes Law 26 (3) (i), the referee should:
(a) caution or order off the player guilty of misconduct; and
(b) declare the penalty kick void; and
(c) award a penalty kick against the team last guilty of misconduct.
The referee should note that:
(a) Repeated infringement is a question of fact and not a question of whether the offender intended to infringe.
(b) If the same player has to be penalised repeatedly he should be dealt with under Law 26 (2) (d).
(c) Foul play must not be condoned.
(d) Repeated infringements arise mainly in connection with scrummages, off-side and line-outs. If a player has been penalised for infringing one of these Laws several times in the same match, he should be cautioned and, if he repeats the offence, ordered off.
(e) It is a question for the referee whether or not a series of the same offences by different players of a team amounts to repeated infringements. If he considers that it does, he should give a general warning to that team and, if the offence is repeated, he must order the offending player off the field.
(f) In deciding the number of offences which should constitute “repeated infringement” the referee should always apply a strict standard in representative and senior matches. On the third occasion a caution must be given.
In the case of junior or minor matches where ignorance of the Laws and lack of skill may account for many infringements, a less strict standard may be applied.
The International Board and the Unions in membership with it will fully support referees in the strict and uniform enforcement of the Laws as to repeated infringements.

Player Ordered Off
A player who is ordered off shall take no further part in the match. When a player is ordered off, the referee shall, as soon as possible after the match, send to the Union or other disciplinary body having jurisdiction over the match a report naming the player and describing the circumstances which necessitated the ordering off. The Union or other disciplinary body having jurisdiction over the match shall consider such report and any other evidence they deem appropriate. They shall then take such action and impose such punishment as they see fit.

Citing of Players
Where a player commits an act of foul play which has not been detected by match officials, either of the Unions or affiliated organisations participating in the match have the discretion to cite that player to show cause why he should not be held accountable in the same way as a player who has been ordered off.
Under Law 26 when a player is ordered off the playing enclosure or the match is abandoned under Law 26 in a match played under the jurisdiction of the RFU the procedure shall be as follows: The referee shall send his report within forty eight hours to:
(a) The Disciplinary Secretary of the Constituent Body to which the player's club is allocated.
(b) The RFU when two or more players are ordered off together for offences arising from their involvement in the same incident and the Clubs for which they were playing are allocated to separate Constituent Bodies.
(c) The RFU if the Club for whom the player was playing is not allocated to a Constituent Body.
(d) The Union for which the player was playing in International matches.
NOTE. In all above cases the referee shall send a copy of his report to his own Referee Society.
(e) The Constituent Body in whose area the match was played if he is not a member of a recognised Referee Society.

The report will then be dealt with by the R.F.U. under the powers in that behalf contained in Bye-Law 13 (g) or by the Constituent Body concerned under the powers delegated to it under the powers contained in Bye-Law 13 (d) (see “Delegation of Powers” in R.F.U. Handbook).

Club secretaries shall report to their Constituent Bodies, within four days, the name and address of any player of their Club who has been ordered off the playing enclosure. This applies irrespective of whether the referee is a member of a Society or not.

In the event of an abandoned match the referee should:
(i) identify the individual culprits who alone will be disciplined under Law 26;
(ii) abandon the game under Law 6;
(iii) explain to both Captains the reasons why he is abandoning it.

LAW 27. PENALTY KICK.
A penalty kick is a kick awarded to the non-offending team as stated in the Laws. It may be taken by any player of the non-offending team and by any form of kick provided that the kicker, if holding the ball, must propel it out of his hands or, if the ball is on the ground, he must propel it a visible distance from the mark. He may keep his hands on the ball while kicking it.
(1) The non-offending team has the option of taking a scrummage at the mark and shall put in the ball.
(2) When a penalty kick is taken the following shall apply:
(a) The kick must be taken without undue delay.
(b) The kick must be taken at or behind the mark on a line through the mark and the kicker may place the ball for a place kick. If the place prescribed by the Laws for the award of a penalty kick is within five metres of the opponents’ goal line, the mark for the penalty kick or a scrummage taken instead of it shall be five metres from the goal line on a line through that place.
(c) The kicker may kick the ball in any direction and he may play the ball again, without any restriction, except that if he has indicated to the referee that he intends to attempt a kick at goal or has taken any action indicating such intention he must not kick the ball in any other way. A player kicking for touch may only punt or drop kick the ball. Any indication of intention is irrevocable.
(d) The kicker’s team, except the placer for a place kick, must be behind the ball until it has been kicked. Retiring players of the kicker’s team who are in front of the ball will not be penalised if their failure to retire is due to the rapidity with which the kick has been taken but they must not stop retiring and enter the game until:
* the offside player has retired behind the player who kicked the ball; or
* one of his team carrying the ball has run in front of him; or
* one of his team has run in front of him after coming from behind the place where the ball was kicked.
(e) The opposing team must run without delay (and continue to do so while the kick is being taken and while the ball is being played by the kicker’s team) to or behind a line parallel to the goal lines and ten metres from the mark, or to their own goal line if nearer to the mark. If a kick at goal is taken they must there remain motionless with their hands by their sides until the kick has been taken.
Retiring players will not be penalised if their failure to retire ten metres is due to the rapidity with which the kick has been taken, but they must not stop retiring and enter the game until an opponent carrying the ball has run five metres.
(f) The opposing team must not prevent the kick or interfere with the kicker in any way. This applies to actions such as wilfully carrying, throwing or kicking the ball away out of reach of the kicker.

Penalty:
* For an infringement by the kicker’s team — a scrummage at the mark.
* For an infringement by the opposing team — a penalty kick ten metres in front of the mark or five metres from the goal line whichever is the nearer, on a line through the mark. Any player of the non-offending team may take the kick.

NOTES
(i) The kick must be taken with the ball which was in play unless the referee decides that the ball is defective.
The use of sand, sawdust or an approved kicking tee is permitted for placing the ball.
A player taking a penalty kick may not bounce the ball on his knee. The kick must be made with the foot or lower leg. If a player fails to kick the ball, a scrummage should be ordered.
In addition to the general provision regarding waste of time, the kicker is bound to kick without delay, under penalty.
The instructions in the second paragraph of note (i) on Law 13 apply also in the case of a penalty kick. Even without a caution, if the delay is clearly a breach of Law the kick should be disallowed and a scrummage ordered.
The referee must always make up time lost by any delay in taking the kick, as provided for in note (ii) under Law 5.
If the kicker appears to be about to take a kick at goal, the referee may ask him to state his intention.
If the kicker is taking a kick at goal, all players of the opposing team must remain passive from the time the kicker commences his run until the kick has been taken.
When a penalty kick is taken in In-goal, a penalty try shall be awarded if a defending player by foul play prevents an opponent from first grounding the ball.
(ix) If, from a penalty kick taken in In-goal, the ball travels into touch-in-goal or over the dead-ball line, a five metre scrummage should be ordered, the attacking team to put in the ball.
(x) If the kicker takes a drop kick and a goal results, the goal stands even though the kicker has not indicated to the referee an intention to kick at goal.
(xi) If, notwithstanding a prior infringement by the opposing team, a goal is kicked, the goal should be awarded instead of a further penalty kick.
(xii) The referee should not award a further penalty if he is satisfied that the reason for such further penalty has been deliberately contrived by the kicker’s team, but should allow play to continue.

LAW 28. FREE KICK.
A free kick is a kick awarded for a fair-catch or to the non-offending team as stated in the Laws. A goal may not be scored from a free kick.
The team awarded a free kick may not score a dropped goal until after the ball next becomes dead or the ball has been played or touched by an opposing player. This restriction applies similarly following a scrummage taken in lieu of a free kick.
A free-kick awarded for an infringement may be taken by any player of the non-offending team.
A free-kick may be taken by any form of kick, unless kicking for touch, provided that the kicker, if holding the ball, must propel it out of his hands or, if the ball is on the ground, he must propel it a visible distance from the mark. He may keep his hand on the ball while kicking it.
(1) The team awarded a free kick has the option of taking a scrummage at the mark and shall put in the ball.
(2) When a kick is taken, it must be taken without undue delay.
(3) The kick must be taken at or behind the mark on a line through the mark and the kicker may place the ball for a place kick.
(4) If the place prescribed by the Laws for the award of a free kick is within five metres of the opponents’ goal line, the mark for the free kick, or the scrummage taken instead of it, shall be five metres from the goal line on a line through that place.
(5) The kicker may kick the ball in any direction and he may play the ball again without restriction. A player kicking for touch may only punt or drop kick the ball.
(6) The kicker’s team, except a placer for a place kick, must be behind the ball until it has been kicked. Retiring players of the kicker’s team who are in front of the ball will not be penalised if their failure to retire is due to the rapidity with which the kick has been taken but they must not stop retiring and enter the game until:
* the offside player has retired behind the player who kicked the ball; or
* one of his team carrying the ball has run in front of him; or
* one of his team has run in front of him after coming from behind the place where the ball was kicked.
(7) The opposing team must not wilfully resort to any action which may delay the taking of a free kick. This includes actions such as wilfully carrying, throwing or kicking the ball away out of reach of the kicker.
(8) The opposing team must retire without delay to or behind a line parallel to the goal lines and ten metres from the mark or to their own goal line if nearer to the mark, or five metres from their opponents’ goal line if the mark is in In-goal. Having so retired, players of the opposing team may charge, with a view to preventing the kick, as soon as the kicker begins his run or offers to kick. Retiring players will not be penalised if their failure to retire ten metres is due to the rapidity with which the kick has been taken, but they may not stop retiring and enter the game until an opponent carrying the ball has run five metres.
(9) If, having charged fairly, players of the opposing team prevent the kick being taken, it is void.
(10) Neither the kicker nor the placer shall wilfully do anything which may lead the opposing team to charge prematurely. If either does so, the charge shall not be disallowed.

Penalty:
* For an infringement by the kicker’s team or for a void kick — a scrummage at the mark and the opposing team shall put in the ball. If the mark is in In-goal, the scrummage shall be awarded five metres from the goal line on a line through the mark.
* For an infringement by the opposing team — a free kick ten metres in front of the mark or five metres from the goal line whichever is nearer, on a line through the mark. Any player of the non-offending team may take the kick.

NOTES
(i) The kick must be taken with the ball which was in play unless the referee decides that the ball is defective.
(ii) A player taking a free kick may not bounce the ball on his knee. The kick must be made with the foot or lower leg. If a player fails to kick the ball, a scrum should be ordered.
(iii) The kicker may not feint to kick and then draw back. Once he makes any movement to kick, the opponents may charge.
(iv) In addition to the general provision regarding waste of time, the kicker is bound to kick without delay, under penalty.
(v) The referee shall see that the opposing players do not gradually creep up and that they have both feet behind the ten metres line, otherwise he shall award a penalty in accordance with the penalty provisions of Law 28.
(vi) If the kick is taken from behind the goal line, the ball is in play if an opponent legitimately plays it before it crosses the goal line, and a try may be scored.
(vii) When a free kick is taken in In-goal, a penalty try shall be awarded if a defending player, by foul play, prevents an opponent from first grounding the ball.
(viii) If from a free kick taken in In-goal the ball travels into touch-in-goal or over the dead-ball line, a five metres scrummage should be ordered, the attacking team to put in the ball.
(ix) If opponents lawfully charge down a free kick in the playing area, play should be allowed to continue.
(x) If a free kick has been awarded in the field-of-play and the player retires to his In-goal to take the kick and his opponents having lawfully charged to prevent the kick from being taken, a scrummage shall be awarded five metres from the goal line on a line through the mark.
(xi) If a free kick has been awarded in In-goal and the opponents having lawfully charged prevent the kick from being taken, a scrummage shall be awarded five metres from the goal line on a line through the mark.
(xii) If the referee is satisfied that the reason for a free kick under the penalty provisions has been contrived, he should allow play to continue.Leaving Playing Enclosure or Resuming 6 A (8) (c)
Misconduct 6 A (8), 26
Number of
Ordered off
Participating in Line-out
Definition 23B, (20), 24 C (2), 24 D (2), 24E (1)
Refer to Law -
Reported to the Union
Touching Referee
Playing Enclosure 6 A (7), 6 A (8) (c)
Playing time lost
Props
Punt Definition
Pushing an Opponent 23 B (15), (17), 26 (1), (3)
Referee - Appointment and Duties 6 A
Repeated Infringement of Laws 26 (2)
Replacements 3
Ruck 21, 24C
Sand & Sawdust — Use of 10(1), 13(ii), 27(xiii)
Scoring, Method of 11
Scrummage 20
Beginning of 20(10)
Binding in 20(6)
Entering from Opponents’ Side 24 B
Forcing Way Through 26 (1) (c)
Off-side and Off-side Line 24 B
Pushed Over Goal Line 12 A (2)
Putting Ball into 14, 20 (7), (8), (9), (10), (11)
Restrictions on Players in 20 (12), (13), (14), (15), (16)
Stoppage of Match 6 A (6) (b)
Stoppage of Play
Sinking an Opponent 26 (3) (a)
Studs
Ten Metres Line at Kick-off 1, Plan, 10 (2)
at Line-out 24 D, Definition
Throw-forward
Time 5
Timekeeper 6 A (3)
Toss 5
Touch 1, 6, 23 A
Throwing in from 6 B, 17, 23 B
Throwing into 26(2)
Touch-down 6, 9, 12 C, 14
Touch-in-Goal 1, Plan, 6 B (4), 14, Definition
Touch Judges — Appointment and Duties 6B
Touch Line 1, Plan, 23 B
Trampling 26(3)
Trial Matches 3 (1) (a)
Tripping 26(3)(b)
Try 9, 11, 12, 14, 26
Twenty two Metres Line 1, Plan, 14, 15, 16
Unconverted Try 10, 13 (1)
Undue Delay 13 (2), 27 (2), 28
Unfair Play 26 (2)
Union Definition
Upright 1, Plan
Waste of Time 26(2)(b)
Whistle 6 A (6)
Wilful Obstruction and Foul Play 26 (1), (2), (3)
Collapsing of Scrummage 20(16)(d)
Infringements (minor) 26 (2) (c)
Knock-on or Throw Forward
Kicking Out of Scrummage 20 (14) (d)
Misleading of Opponents 13, 20 (17) (b), 28
Throw into Touch 26 (2) (c)

INTERNATIONAL RUGBY FOOTBALL BOARD DIRECTIVES
March 1981
Dragging Down by Props
The International Board is concerned at an increasing tendency for props to endeavour to drag down their opponents by pulling on their jerseys and/or outer arm. Such practices carry an attendant risk of collapse of the front row with the possibility of serious injury due to the manner in which the players concerned are likely to fall.
The present methods of formation of the front row and requirements for binding are under review by the Board and will be considered again at its meeting next year. In an effort to improve the situation certain changes have been made to Law 20 to be operative in each Union next Season. Meanwhile Member Unions are to direct referees that in the interests of safety, they must take strict measures to penalise the practices referred to above, or any other action which is likely to cause the scrummage to collapse.

March 1981
Prohibition of Single Toe Studs
Attention of Member Unions is also drawn to the addition to Law 4 (1) of the words “The wearing of a single stud at the toe of a boot is prohibited.” This has been done as a further measure in the interests of safety. Member Unions are asked to take such steps as they deem necessary to implement this change and to draw attention to the need for filling or blanking to render safe any empty stud hole resulting from the removal of a stud.

17th August 1981
At the Annual Meeting of the Board in March 1981, alterations were made to Law 20 Scrummage in an attempt to reduce the incidence of collapsed scrummages and potential serious injury. The changes in Law relate solely to players in the front row of the scrummage, especially the prop forwards and how they must bind one another.
In particular Law 20(6)(c) states:
“The tight head prop must bind his opposing loose head prop with his right arm over the top of the left shoulder of his opposing loose head prop.”
The Board appreciates that some difficulty is being experienced in applying the above section of the Law as written, and, in response to requests for clarification, finds it necessary to issue the following directive:
It directs all players, coaches and referees to:
1. Interpret Law 20(6)(c), insofar as it relates to binding by the tight head prop, as follows:
The tight head prop must bind his right arm outside the left upper arm of his opposing loose head prop. He may grip the jersey of his opposing loose head prop with his right hand but only to keep himself and the scrummage steady and he must not exert a downward pull.
2. Observe strictly Law 20(14) (b) which states:
“Players in the front rows must not at any time during the scrummage wilfully adopt any position or wilfully take any action, by twisting or lowering the body or by pulling on an opponent’s dress, which is likely to cause the scrummage to collapse.”

9th July 1982
In response to a request from the New Zealand Rugby Football Union the following ruling was received from the IRFB (Designated Members) dated 9th July 1982:
Q1. A player carrying the ball is held by an opponent grasping the tail of his jersey with one hand and goes to the ground while so held. Does this constitute a tackle?
Q2. What is the definition of “held”? For example, can the player be “held” by one leg, or by the jersey or by a bootlace?
(* Comment appended to question: It is considered the question in regard to a bootlace is hypothetical and should be ignored.)
Answer
Both questions essentially involve the meaning of the word “held”. There is, of course, no definition within the Laws of the Game, but the term has long been in use and has no difference in meaning now than heretofore. An Oxford Dictionary definition is “keep fast or grasp”, which seems appropriate here. It has generally been accepted that pulling on any part of the clothing of an opponent is holding. See Law 26(3) (e).
It is considered that a player is “held” if he is grasped by an opponent with an arm or arms or hand or hands to any part of his body, arms or legs or any part of his dress. If, while so held, he is brought to the ground then he is “tackled”. In the specific question, the relevant facts are that the player carrying the ball has been grasped and brought to the ground while so held. Therefore, within the context of Law 18 he is tackled.

November 1982
Law 20 Scrummage (Binding of Players)
After the ball has been put into a scrummage but before it has emerged, it is illegal for players in a front row to break away and stand up in order to counter a wheel or similar manoeuvre by the opposing team.

March 1983
The attention of all referees is drawn to Law 26(2) (d) and the penalty provisions for repeated infringements, which it is considered are not being applied by referees.

March 1984
In a letter dated 21st December 1983 the WRU posed the following question:
“At a penalty kick at goal a defending player jumps up and deliberately knocks the ball forward in order to prevent the ball crossing the bar for a goal. Is this a deliberate knock-on or a charge down?”
As stated in the question the player’s intention was to prevent a goal being scored. To do this he appears intentionally to have charged down the kick and not intentionally to have knocked-on. This conforms to the situation set out in Law 17(2) second pica dot and the knock-on in these circumstances should be ruled unintentional.
Attention of Member Unions is again drawn to the Ruling dated 25th October 1979 that:
If the scrum half following the ball around a scrummage, places his hand or hands on the opposing flanker and variously uses him to obtain leverage or assistance or grasps his jersey he should be penalised for misconduct under Law 26(3).

Directive to Unions with immediate effect
The Board is concerned at the introduction into the Game of what is generally described as “the flying wedge”, following the award of a penalty kick or a free kick. This is potentially a very dangerous practice and could result in serious injury to opposing players. Consequently, it is to be regarded as dangerous play and is to be penalised in accordance with the provisions of Law 26(3).

Under 19 and Schoolboy Rugby
The Board approved Member Unions adopting trial variations to the Laws of the Game in domestic matches for Under 19 and Schoolboy Rugby in the interests of greater safety and requests that reports on any such trials be submitted to it.

March 1985
Ruling on Law 26:
In response to a question received, the Committee recommends that the following ruling given in 1980 is applicable to any opposing player bound to the scrum, not only the flanker as stated. The ruling was in response to a specific question relating to the flanker.
If the scrum half, following the ball round the scrummage, places his hand or hands on the opposing flanker and variously uses him to obtain leverage or assistance or grasps his jersey, he should be penalised for misconduct under Law 26 (3)”.

Concussion
In recent years there has been increasing concern amongst medical workers who see the long term effects that head injuries can have. Concussion is one of the most serious injuries that can be sustained by participants in any sport. Unfortunately there is often no apparent reason for concern on an immediate or short term basis.
Resolution 5.7 reflects the concern of the Board’s Medical Advisory Committee that a player who has sustained a head injury of any sort should receive appropriate advice and treatment. The Board, supporting this, decided that the Resolution should be quoted in the Laws Book, following Law 3, to draw it to the attention of officials and coaches.
It must be remembered that the purpose of this Resolution is to protect the player’s physical welfare and safety. It is to ensure that he does not participate while still recovering from an injury, the effects of which are not readily apparent to the lay person or an unqualified coach, or even to the player himself. There is no intention to place responsibility for this on the referee. It is the responsibility of coaches and officials.
It is not intended or suggested that a referee should give an opinion or make a decision regarding “definite concussion”. The referee’s function does not go beyond Law 3 (5), which was altered to give him authority to require a player to leave the field if he considered for any reason it would be harmful for that player to continue playing.
Regarding medical examination after suspected concussion, a “proper neurological examination” may be carried out by any doctor who has appropriate experience, and this is not confined to a particular speciality. The examination should be primarily concerned with clinical signs and the history given by the patient in response to specific questions. There is an internationally recognised assessment of concussion, based on the degree of amnesia.
In the absence of clinical signs or symptoms, a brain scan will not normally assist in diagnosing concussion or determining if a player is fit to resume playing. Its use is in serious complications, where it should already be evident that the player should not be playing. In summary, an appropriate clinical examination by a competent doctor, of whatever speciality, should normally be adequate. If such examination reveals no evidence of concussion, the restriction on playing need not apply.

26th November 1985
Re: Law 23B. Line-out
With reference to the letter from the Irish Rugby Football Union, dated 24th September 1985, relating to a decision of a meeting of the Five Nations Committee with its International Panels of Referees, on 2nd December 1984.
Attention is drawn to Law 23B (21) that “players of either team who are not in the line-out may not advance from behind the line-out and take the ball from the throw-in except only, a player “participating in the line-out” (as defined in Section D of Law 24) who may run into a gap in the line-out and take the ball provided he does not charge or obstruct any player in the line-out”.
Section D of Law 24 states that the term “participating in the line-out” includes “one other player of either team who takes up position to receive the ball if it is passed or knocked back from the line-out”.
Therefore the scrum half from the side not throwing in the ball is “participating in the line-out” and may run into a gap and take the ball even if his opponent did not move to do so first, provided he does not charge or obstruct any other player in the line-out.
The decision reached by the meeting under reference is considered to be correct.

27th November 1985
Re: Law 20(4) Scrummage Wheeling
With reference to the letter from the Rugby Football Union dated 5th October 1985 which included under Item 3, questions relating to possibilities following a scrum wheeling - insofar as the questions were understood, the advice is as follows:
1. Each front row of a scrummage shall have three players in it at all times. If there are less than three the scrummage is over. If an infringement has occurred under Law 20(4), the penalty is a free kick at the place of infringement.
2. DELETED
3. Any players of the team in possession of the ball who are in front of the ball are in an off-side position in accordance with Law 24A.
4. The referee should allow advantage for off-side in general play subject to Note (i) to Law 24A.
5. If a scrummage is over, players of the team not in possession may dive at the ball at the feet of the No. 8.

19th March 1987
Law 18
1. In the circumstances stated in Note (iv) to Law 18, a “defending player” may attempt to prevent a try being scored. “Defending player” includes a tackler and a player lying on the ground.
2. DELETED

March 1988
Law 6A Referee Section (7)
It should be noted that if the referee decides to stop play as per the terms of this amendment (see Section 7 second paragraph) but without an infringement having occurred or without the ball being dead, he should re-start play with a scrummage and the ball shall be put in by the team last in possession, otherwise by the attacking team.

March 1991
LAW 20 - SCRUMMAGE
SCRUMMAGE COLLAPSE
The Board heard with concern of the growing tendency of referees to allow the scrummage to continue after its collapse if the ball appears to be imminently available.
In the event of a scrummage collapsing the referee in the interests of safety must whistle immediately so that players do not continue to push and put further pressure into an unstable situation.
The importance of these Directives as safety factors within the Laws cannot be overstated and should be implemented at all levels of the Game.
See also RFU Ruling May 1992

Amendments to the Laws of the Game 1992 — Rulings
25th August 1992
The following rulings have been issued by the IRFB in relation to the recent amendments to the Laws.
LAW 10 - Kick-Off
Under the new Law 10 (4), when the ball is kicked into the opponents In-goal from a kick-off, “the opposing team has the option of grounding the ball or playing on”. This option must be exercised without delay, and if a defending player, after gathering the ball in In-goal, runs with it or passes it, he has taken the option to play on.

LAW 18 - Tackle
The requirement of Law 18 (1) (b) relates to the first player to play the ball after a tackle. No distance is specified for the ball to be from the tackle but if the ball has travelled into In-goal there is no requirement for a player who forces the ball to be on his feet (refer new Note (v)).

LAW 23B - Line-out
In reference to (5)(b), if a player has received the ball outside his 22 metre line then throws, knocks or kicks the ball back over that line, retrieves it himself and then kicks for touch, his team cannot gain ground if the ball pitches directly into touch.

LAW 23B - Line-out
Under Note (xiv) “a step in any direction” allows more than a single step and direction, provided the jumper does not cross the line of touch.

LAW 27 — Penalty Kick
The requirement in 27(2)(d) for the kicker’s team to be behind the ball until it has been kicked applies to all participating players, whether they are within the playing area or outside it.

RFU RULINGS
LAW 27(2)(c): Penalty Kick at Goal
Query: The kicker places the ball for a kick at goal, as he starts to run the ball falls over; the kicker picks up the ball and drop kicks, the ball goes between the posts. Referee gives the goal - three points to kicker’s team. Was the referee correct?
Ruling: Yes, having elected to kick at goal, the ball then fell over and the kicker changed the type of kick and proceeded to drop a goal, the kick should stand. (Covered by Law 27(2)(c)).

LAW 6(5) and LAW 26
Query: A “red” player carrying the ball puts a foot into touch. The touch judge raises his flag; this action is not seen by the referee and play proceeds for some distance before the referee has to blow his whistle for an action by “red” under Law 26. The referee awards a penalty to “red’s” opponents, only then does he see that the touch judge has his flag raised. Where should the penalty be given?
Ruling: The penalty should be awarded at the place of the infringement and not fifteen metres from the point of touch where the player has stepped out of the field of play.

September 1982
LAW 20. SCRUMMAGE (ref. Note (ii))
The words “five metres from that touch line” mean that all feet in the scrummage must be beyond the in-field side of the five metres line.

February 1983
The Rugby Football Union have decided to ban forthwith a ploy commonly known as the “flying wedge“, in all School/Colts rugby. This is a move which usually takes place close to an opponent's line, and is initiated by a player either tapping the ball to himself or receiving a short pass, and then driving towards the goal line with his colleagues binding onto either side of him, in a V or wedge formation; hence the term “flying wedge”. Frequently the player is isolated illegally by those of his own team in front of him (coaches/referees please note). The dangers inherent in this formation are not for those initiating the move but for those trying to stop it. Such a move or ploy is now banned.

April 1987
The Cavalry Charge
A cavalry charge usually occurs when a penalty kick is awarded to the attacking team close to their opponent’s goal line. Players of the attacking team line up behind the kicker spacing themselves across the field in gaps of a metre or two. On a signal from the kicker they begin to charge forward. Only when they are close to the kicker does he tap kick the ball and pass it to one of them. The defending team have to remain behind a line ten metres from the mark of their own goal line (if nearer) until the ball has been kicked.
The move is potentially dangerous and is, therefore, banned forthwith for those playing the game at U19 on 1st September.

23rd August 1987
Ref. Note (i) to Law 20
The feet of the front five defending players must be in the field-of-play.

LAW 6A (7) AMENDMENT 1988
Ruling issued by the Rugby Football Union
The provisions of the second paragraph of Section 7 must be applied in all matches (with the exception of matches between teams aged under nineteen or below) when a medically trained person is in attendance. While domestic matches between teams aged under nineteen or below are excluded, in matches at that level involving teams from other Unions the provisions are to be applied unless it is the policy of the other Union also to exclude such teams from the provision of this Law.
Before the match, the referee must ascertain whether some medically trained person is available and, if they are, shall issue appropriate instructions to them and to the Team Captains. It is to be noted that in all matches in which these provisions are applied, the referee has a discretion to stop play at any time. He should do so in cases where the injury is other than minor or if continuation of play is likely to result in danger to players.

May 1992
Law 20 Scrummage
Attention is drawn to the new Law 20 (14) (c). In the interests of safety the referee must whistle immediately if in a scrummage an opponent is lifted off his feet or forced upwards out of the scrummage.

June 1992
PROTECTIVE CLOTHING
During matches, players are banned from wearing head guards and protective garments on the torso, around the waist or above or on the arms.
The reasons are:
1. They give the wearer a false sense of security and can, in certain circumstances, encourage the player to play or propel themself in a more dangerous fashion than they would otherwise do so.
2. They give the wearer an unfair advantage over other players.
3. They encourage players to play when they are in fact carrying an injury and should not be playing.
NOTE: The new Rhino scrum cap may be worn.