THE LAWS OF THE GAME OF RUGBY FOOTBALL
as framed by The International Rugby Football Board



THE PLAN, including all words and figures thereon, is to take effect as part of these Laws.
THE TERMS appearing on the Plan are to bear their apparent meaning, and to be deemed part of the definitions as if separately included.

LAW 1. Plan of the Field.
Notes: ■ Indicates Post with Flag.
Length and breadth of Field to be as near to dimensions indicated as possible.
--------These broken lines indicate 10 yards distance from the half-way line and 5 yards distance from the Touch Lines.
Goal dimensions.—10 feet is taken from the ground to the top edge of the Crossbar and 18 feet 6 inches from inside to inside of the goal posts.
Where practicable the intersection of the dead ball line and touch-in-goal lines should be indicated by a flag.

The lines in the margin opposite Laws 15, 18, 19, 20, 24, 26, 27, 31, 32, 33 and 34 denote alterations in the Laws.
Clarifications or re-arrangements of the Laws are not so marked.

Part I.—Definitions and Glossary of Terms.
LAW 2. The following terms have the meaning assigned to them, that is to say:—
“Beyond” or “Behind” or “In front” of any position indicated implies “with both feet” except when unsuited to the context.
Dead means that the ball is for the time being out of play, an event that occurs when the Referee’s whistle is blown to indicate a stoppage of play or when an attempt to convert a try is unsuccessful.
Fair-Catch. A fair-catch is obtained when a player catches the ball direct from a kick, knock-on, or throw-forward by one of the opposing team if at the same time the catcher makes a mark on the ground with his heel and exclaims “Mark.”
A fair-catch can be made in a player’s own in-goal.

Field-of-Play. The field-of-play is the space as shown on the plan, bounded by, but not including, the goal lines and touch lines.
Goal. A goal is obtained by kicking the ball over the opponents’ cross bar from the field-of-play, by any place kick or drop kick except a kick-off or drop-out, without touching the ground or any player of either team.
A goal is scored if the ball has crossed the bar, even though it may have been blown back afterwards, and whether it has touched the cross bar or either goal post or not.
A goal is scored if the ball has crossed the bar after it has been illegally touched by a player of the opposing team.
A goal may be awarded if the ball is illegally touched by any player of the opposing team if the Referee is of the opinion that a goal would otherwise undoubtedly have been obtained.
Grounding the Ball. Grounding the ball is the act of a player placing his hand or hands on the ball, while it is on the ground, so that he is able to exert on it a downward pressure. Picking up the ball from the ground is not “grounding it.”

Kick. A kick is made by propelling the ball with the foot, or leg from the knee to the toe inclusive.
Drop Kick. A drop kick is made by a player in possession of the ball letting it fall from the hand or hands to the ground and kicking it at the first rebound as it rises.
Place Kick. A place kick is made by kicking the ball after it has been placed on the ground for that purpose.
Punt. A punt is made by a player in possession of the ball letting it fall from the hand or hands and kicking it before it touches the ground.
Drop-Out. A drop-out is a drop kick taken by the defending team after a touch down or after the ball has touched or crossed the touch-in-goal or dead ball line.
Free Kick. A free kick is a kick allowed for a fair-catch. It may be taken by a place kick, drop kick or punt.
Kick-off. Kick-off is a place kick taken from the centre of the half-way line—
(a) at the beginning of a match,
(b) on the resumption of play after the half-time interval and
(c) after a goal has been kicked, or a drop-kick taken at or from behind the centre of the half-way line after an unconverted try.

Penalty Kick. A penalty kick is a kick awarded to the non-offending team by reason of an infringement of the Laws by their opponents. It may be taken by a place kick, drop kick or punt.
Knock-on. A knock-on occurs when the ball after striking the hand or arm of a player travels in the direction of his opponents’ dead ball line.
Throw-forward. A throw-forward occurs when the ball is propelled by the hand or arm of a player in the direction of his opponents’ dead ball line.
Rebound. A rebound occurs when the ball after striking any part of a player except his hand, arm, or leg from the knee to the toe inclusive, travels in the direction of his opponents’ dead ball line.
Mark. The mark is the place at which a free kick or penalty kick is awarded.
No-Side. The end of a match.

Off-Side. Off-side denotes that a player is in such a position that he is out of the Game, and that it is illegal for him to play the ball or interfere with an opponent.
On-Side. On-side denotes that a player is in the Game and not off-side.
Scrummage. A scrummage, which can only take place in the field-of-play, is formed by one or more players from each team closing round the ball when it is on the ground, or by players of each team closing up in readiness to allow the ball to be put on the ground between them in accordance with Law 15 (B).
Tackle. A tackle occurs when the holder of the ball in the field-of-play is held by one or more players of the opposing team so that while he is so held the ball comes in contact with the ground, or there is a moment when he cannot pass or play the ball.
Touch-down. A touch-down is obtained by the act of a defending player first grounding the ball in his own in-goal.
Try. A try is obtained by the act of an attacking player first grounding the ball in his opponents’ in-goal.

Part II.—Preliminary.
LAW 3. Ground.
All lines shown on the plan must be suitably marked out. The touch lines are in touch. The goal lines are in in-goal. The touch-in-goal lines and corner posts are in touch-in-goal. The goal posts are to be erected in the goal lines.
Any objection by the visiting team arising in connection with the subject matter of Laws 1 and 3 must be made before the first kick-off.

LAW 4. Ball.
The ball shall be oval in shape and of the following description, as far as possible:—
Length in line: 11 to 11 1/2 ins.
Circumference (end on): 30 to 31 ins.
Circumference (in width): 24 to 25 1/2 ins.
Weight: 13 1/2 to 15 ozs.

LAW 5. Players’ Dress.
A player may not wear dangerous projections—buckles, rings, etc. Any studs on his boots must be of leather, rubber, aluminium, or any approved plastic, circular, securely fastened, provided the following dimensions are rigidly adhered to, namely:—
Maximum length (measured from sole): 3/4 in.
Minimum diameter at base: 1/2 in.
Minimum diameter at top: 3/8 in.

LAW 6. Appointment of Referee and Touch Judges.
In all matches a Referee and two Touch Judges must be appointed or mutually agreed upon.

LAW 7. Method of Scoring.
A try: 3 points
A goal from a try (in which case the try shall not count): 5 points
A goal from a free kick or penalty kick: 3 points
A dropped goal otherwise obtained: 3 points

LAW 8. Time, etc.
In International matches two periods of 40 minutes each shall be played; in other matches the duration of play shall be agreed upon by the respective teams, or if not agreed upon shall be fixed by the Referee. Play shall be divided into halves. At half-time there shall be an interval of not more than five minutes. A period not exceeding three minutes shall be allowed for any other permitted delay. At half-time the teams shall change over.

LAW 9.
Before a match begins the captains shall toss for the right to kick-off or the choice of ends.

LAW 10. Functions of Referee.
(1) The Referee is sole timekeeper and judge of fact, and shall keep the score.
(2) He is sole judge of Law, subject to a right of appeal to this Union.
(3) He is not entitled to contract out of the Laws of the Game by agreeing with both teams to vary or not to recognise any Law.
(4) He must not give any instructions or directions to either team prior to a match.
(5) He may, before arriving at a decision, consult the Touch Judges or either of them on any point of fact material to their functions, or with regard to time in the case of failure of his watch.
(6) He may not consult with anyone else except with regard to time, and then only if the information supplied by the Touch Judges is insufficient.
(7) He may allow extra time for delays.
(8) He has power to stop a match before time has expired if, in his opinion, the full time cannot be played.
(9) In the case of his being unable to officiate during the whole period of a match, he shall have power to appoint a substitute to take his place, failing an agreement by the captains of the respective teams.
(10) He cannot alter any decision when given.
(11) It rests with him to impose penalties for irregularities, and to give all necessary directions within the Laws. He has full power to decide before, or during the game, if any parts of a player’s dress, including boots and projections thereon, are dangerous, and in that case must order such player to remove the same and not allow him to take further part in the match until after such removal.
(12) He must not allow anyone but the players on to the playing enclosure during a match except with his permission.
(13) He must not allow any player to leave the playing enclosure without his permission, which should only be granted in special circumstances.
Any player who, through injury or any other cause, has to retire during a match, shall not resume playing in that match until he has obtained the permission of the Referee.
(14) The Referee must carry a whistle. He shall blow it to indicate the beginning of a match and the resumption of play after the half-time interval. With the exception of these occasions the blowing of the whistle stops the match for the time being, and the Referee shall blow it only to indicate:—
(a) a try,
(b) a goal,
(c) that the ball has been touched down,
(d) that the ball has touched or crossed the touch, touch-in-goal, or dead ball lines,
(e) a breach of Law or irregularity of play, unless the non-offending team gains an advantage,
(f) that he is awarding a penalty,
(g) a fair-catch (even though he has blown for a knock-on or throw-forward),
(h) that the ball or player carrying it has touched him,
(i) player hurt (as soon afterwards as the ball has become dead and subject to resumption of play in not more than three minutes),
(j) danger, when continuation of play would be dangerous.
If the tackled player plays in the proper spirit and at once fairly releases the ball, very few cases of danger can arise, but by holding on for a short time danger may arise. In such cases the Referee should award a penalty.
(k) foul play or misconduct,
(l) half-time or no-side, as soon as the ball has become dead, except as the result of a try or the award of a fair-catch or penalty kick, when in each case he shall allow play to proceed until the ball next becomes dead,
(m) that a stoppage is necessary for any other reason.
(15) The Referee shall not blow his whistle merely because a player is tackled, or when an irregularity occurs from which the non-offending team gains advantage. (Subject to Laws 21, 22, 23, 24 and 27.)
The Referee should see that an advantage (generally meaning “territorial advantage”) is actually gained by the non-offending team, failing which, he should whistle for the offence. An OPPORTUNITY of gaining an advantage is not sufficient.
(16) In case of any dispute relative to a try or a kick at goal where it is possible that an appeal may be made to the Union, the Referee shall allow the kick at goal, so that if the kick is successful, and the Union supports the appeal, the goal points may be added.
When a kick at goal is allowed the match should be re-started as though no dispute had arisen.

LAW 11. Functions of Touch Judges.
(1) Each Touch Judge must carry a flag and remain in touch, one on each side of the ground, except when a kick at goal from a try, free kick or penalty kick is being taken, when both must assist the Referee by standing, one at or behind each of the goal posts of the defending team and signalling by raising his flag to indicate that the ball has gone over the cross bar.
(2) He must hold up his flag when and where the ball or the player carrying it has gone into touch, and indicate which team is entitled to bring the ball into play.
(3) He must lower his flag immediately the ball has been thrown in by a player of the team entitled to do so, but if the ball is otherwise thrown in, or if the player throwing in the ball puts either foot into the field-of-play, he must keep his flag raised, and the ball shall be thrown in again.
(4) He must signal when the ball, or the player carrying it, has gone into touch-in-goal.
(5) Any decision of a Touch Judge may be over-ruled by the Referee.
(6) A Touch Judge is under the control of the Referee, who has power to deal with him as a player under Law 34 (b) and (c).

Part III.—The Play in Detail.
LAW 12. Number of Players.
A match shall be played by not more than fifteen players in each team. Any objection by either team in connection with this Law may be made at any time before the first kick-off.

LAW 13. Mode of Play.
A match is started by a kick-off, after which any player who is on-side may, at any time, kick, pick up, or run with the ball, or tackle an opponent holding the ball, except as provided for in Laws 15 and 16.
The ball may be passed or knocked from one player to another provided it is not passed, knocked or thrown forward, by hand or arm.

LAW 14. Knock-on or Throw-forward or Rebound.
A knock-on occurs when the ball after striking the hand or arm of a player travels in the direction of his opponents’ dead ball line.
A throw-forward occurs when the ball is propelled by the hand or arm of a player in the direction of his opponents’ dead ball line.
A rebound occurs when the ball after striking any part of a player except his hand, arm or leg from the knee to the toe inclusive, travels in the direction of his opponents’ dead ball line.
A throw-in from touch is not a throw-forward.
A rebound is not a knock-on.
If the ball is not passed forward, but, after alighting on the ground, it bounces forward, the pass is in order.
It is not necessary for a player to “propel” the ball in order to constitute a knock-on; if the ball strikes his hand or arm and travels in the direction of his opponents’ dead ball line, it is a knock-on.
In the case of a throw-forward or a knock-on the ball shall be brought back to the place of infringement and a scrummage formed there, unless—
(a) a fair-catch has been allowed, or
(b) the opposing team gains an advantage, or
(c) the ball is knocked on by a player who is in the act of charging down the kick of an opponent, or
(d) the throw-forward or knock-on is, in the opinion of the Referee, intentional, in which case he shall award a penalty kick at the place of infringement.

LAW 15. Scrummage.
A scrummage, which can only take place in the field-of-play, is formed by one or more players from each team closing round the ball when it is on the ground, or by players of each team closing up in readiness to allow the ball to be put on the ground between them in accordance with Law 15 (B).
(A) This part of Law 15 applies in the case of every scrummage, whether it is a “loose” scrummage or a “set” scrummage.
It is illegal for any player, except as provided by Law 26 (b),
(a) to return the ball into a scrummage by hand or foot, or
(b) while the ball is in a scrummage, to handle it or pick it up by hand or legs, or
(c) intentionally to cause the scrummage to collapse, or
(d) intentionally to fall or kneel in the scrummage, or
(e) while lying on the ground to interfere in any way with the ball in a scrummage.
(B) This part of Law 15 applies only in the case of a “set” scrummage, i.e., one ordered or taken in accordance with the Laws.
In this part of Law 15, the terms “first,” “second,” “third,” etc., when applied to a player, or a foot, in either front row of a scrummage refer to the position of such player or foot, counting from the side on which the ball is being, or has been put in; and the term “the middle line” means a line midway between and parallel to the lines of feet of the players in the respective front rows.
Forming a Scrummage.
(1) It is illegal for either team wilfully to delay the formation of a scrummage.
(2) Every scrummage shall be formed as nearly as practicable to the place of infringement and so that the middle line is as nearly as practicable parallel to the goal lines until the ball has been put in.
(3) Each front row of a scrummage shall be formed by three players, and it is illegal for any player at any time to add himself to a front row so formed. Subject to this any number of players may form a scrummage.
(4) The players of each front row shall bind firmly and continuously while the ball is being put in and while it is in the scrummage. Neither arm of the second player, nor the inner arms of the first and third players may be free. The second player may bind either over or under the arms of the first and third players, but in any case he must bind firmly around the bodies of these players at or below the level of the armpits. The first and third players must bind the second player in like manner.
(5) It is illegal for a front row to form down some distance from its opponents and rush against them. Such dangerous play also infringes Law 34 (a) (3).
Putting the Ball into the Scrummage.
(6) The team not responsible for the stoppage of play shall put in the ball. A stoppage may be caused without any infringement by either team. Only when in doubt as to the responsibility, the Referee shall order the ball to be put in by the team in whose half of the ground the scrummage is to be formed.
(7) The ball shall be put in without delay as soon as the two front rows have closed together.
(8) The player putting in the ball shall—
(a) stand one yard from the scrummage and midway between the two front rows.
(b) put the ball in with both hands in a single movement from a level midway between his knee and his ankle and straight along the middle line at moderate speed so that it first touches the ground immediately beyond the nearer second foot.
(9) It is illegal for any player by placing or advancing or raising a foot or feet, or in any other way, to prevent the ball from being put into the scrummage, or first touching the ground in the required manner.
(10) The ball shall be put into the scrummage again if it enters and comes out at either end of the tunnel or if, on its way out, it passes between the first and second feet of either front row.
Heeling from the Scrummage.
(11) It is illegal for any foot of either front row to be raised or advanced until—
(a) in the case of the first foot, the ball has passed that foot, or
(b) in the case of the second foot and the third foot, the ball has been touched by or passed either fourth foot, or
(c) in the case of the fourth foot and the feet beyond, the ball has left the hands of the player putting it in.
(12) It is illegal for any player of either front row to heel or to attempt to heel the ball by—
(a) advancing both his feet beyond the middle line, or
(b) raising both his feet off the ground at the same time, or
(c) swinging both feet together in any direction, or
(d) twisting or lowering his body so as to get nearer to the ball as it enters the scrummage, or in a manner liable to cause the scrummage to collapse.
Penalty:—For any infringement of Law 15 a penalty kick shall be awarded. If a player persistently infringes, the Referee MUST deal with him under Law 34 (d).

LAW 16. Tackle.
A tackle occurs when the holder of the ball in the field-of-play is held by one or more players of the opposing team so that while he is so held the ball comes in contact with the ground, or there is a moment when he cannot pass or play the ball.
(a) After a tackle the ball must be played with a foot.
(b) When a player is tackled but not brought to the ground, he must IMMEDIATELY release the ball.
(c) The tackled player, if lying on the ground, must IMMEDIATELY release the ball, roll away from it, and get up before playing it with his foot.
(d) It is illegal for any player—
(i) to prevent a tackled player from releasing the ball, or getting up after he has released it, or
(ii) to pick up the ball, after a tackled player has released it, or when it is on the ground after a player has been tackled, until it has been played with a foot, or
(iii) while lying on the ground after a tackle to interfere with the ball in any way until it has been played with the foot of a player who is not lying on the ground.
The foregoing provisions are subject to Law 26 (d).
Penalty:—Penalty kick awarded at the place of infringement.
If a player carrying the ball is thrown or knocked over, but not tackled, he may nevertheless pass the ball or get up and continue his run, even though the ball has touched the ground.

LAW 17. Lying on the Ball.
A player lying on the ground with the ball in his possession must immediately play the ball, or get up, or roll away from the ball.
Penalty:—Penalty kick awarded at place of infringement.

LAW 18. Off-side.
(1) When the ball is in play, except in a scrummage or in a line-out, a player is off-side if the ball has been kicked or touched or is being carried by one of his own team behind him.
It is illegal for a player who is off-side under this part of Law 18 to—
(a) play the ball, or
(b) obstruct an opponent in any way, or
(c) approach or wilfully remain within ten yards of an opponent waiting for the ball.
It is illegal for any player to shout “all-on-side,” or words to that effect, when any member of his team is off-side.
Penalty:—Penalty kick awarded at the place of infringement, or, at the option of the non-offending team, a scrummage at the place where the ball was last played by the offending team. If such latter place is in in-goal, the scrummage shall be formed five yards from the goal line on a line through the place parallel to the touch lines. When a penalty kick is awarded for illegally shouting from in touch, the kick shall be awarded ten yards from the touch line, on a line through the place parallel to the goal lines.
When an off-side player is unable to avoid being touched by the ball, or by a player carrying it, he shall be deemed to be “accidentally off-side” and a scrummage shall be formed at the place where he was so touched.
(2) While a scrummage is forming or is taking place, a player is off-side if—
(a) he enters a scrummage from his opponents’ side, or
(b) being in front of the ball and not in the scrummage he fails to retire behind the ball without delay, or
(c) not being in the scrummage, he advances either foot in front of the ball in the scrummage.
A player is not in a scrummage unless he is binding with either arm a player of his own team in the scrummage.
Penalty:—Penalty kick awarded at the place of infringement.
(3) While a line-out is taking place in accordance with Law 27 a player is off-side if—
(a) before the ball has touched a player or the ground he wilfully remains or advances with either foot in front of a line at right angles to the touch line through the place where the ball went into touch, unless he advances solely in the act of jumping for the ball, or
(b) after the ball has touched a player or the ground he, not being in possession of the ball, advances with either foot in front of the ball, unless he is lawfully tackling or attempting to tackle an opponent who is participating in the line-out.
It is not intended that a player before throwing in the ball should be obliged to wait until players of his own team have returned to or behind the line-out, and a player is not to be deemed as wilfully remaining under Law 18 (3) (a) provided he so returns without delay.
Penalty:—Penalty kick awarded at the place of infringement or ten yards from the touch line on a line at right angles to the touch line through the place where the ball went into touch, whichever is the farther distance from the touch line.

LAW 19. On-Side.
A player who is off-side under Law 18 (1) becomes on-side—
(a) when an opponent carrying the ball has run five yards, or
(b) when the ball has been kicked by an opponent, or
(c) when an opponent has INTENTIONALLY touched the ball, provided such opponent does not catch or gather it, or
(d) when one of his own team has run in front of him either carrying the ball or after having kicked the ball when behind him. Such kicker must be in the field-of-play or in in-goal to put the off-side player on-side, though he is not debarred from previously following up in touch, or in touch-in-goal, or
(e) when he has retired behind the player of his own team who last played the ball.

LAW 20. Charging and Obstruction.
It is illegal for any player—
(a) who is running for the ball to charge an opponent also running for the ball, except shoulder to shoulder, or
(b) who is not running for the ball to charge or obstruct an opponent not holding the ball, or
(c) who is overtaking an opponent also running for the ball to push him from behind, or
(d) to hold an opponent who is not carrying the ball.
Pulling any part of the clothing of an opponent should be dealt with as holding under this Law and under Law 34 (a) (2). Players should, however, not be penalised for “holding” if they drag away a player lying on the ground in close proximity to the ball but not in a scrummage.
(e) with the ball in his possession after it has come out from a scrummage to attempt to force his way through his own forwards.
Penalty:—Penalty kick awarded at the place of infringement.
(f) who is not himself running for the ball to wilfully charge or obstruct an opponent who has just kicked the ball.
Penalty:—The opposing team shall be awarded at their option a penalty kick at the place of infringement, or at the place where the ball alights.
If the ball alights in touch, the mark shall be at a place ten yards from the touch line on a line parallel to the goal lines through the place where it crossed the touch line.
If the ball alights within ten yards of the touch line the mark shall be at a place ten yards from the touch line on a line parallel to the goal lines through the place where it alighted.
If the ball alights in in-goal, touch-in-goal, or on the dead ball line, the mark shall be at a place five yards from the goal line on a line parallel to the touch line through the place where it crossed the goal line or ten yards from the touch line whichever is the greater.

LAW 21. Kick-off.
Kick-off is a place kick taken from the centre of the half-way line or a drop kick taken at or from behind the centre of the half-way line.
(a) A place kick must be taken from the centre of the half-way line, or after an unconverted try a drop kick must be taken at or from behind the centre of the half-way line: otherwise the ball shall be kicked off again.
(b) The ball must reach the ten yards line, unless first played by an opponent; otherwise it shall be kicked off again or a scrummage formed at the centre, at the opponents’ option. If it reaches the ten yards line and is then blown back play shall continue.
(c) The kicker’s team must all be behind the ball; otherwise a scrummage shall be formed at the centre.
(d) The opposing team must not stand within ten yards of the half-way line; otherwise the ball shall be kicked off again.
(e) The opposing team must not charge until the ball has been kicked; otherwise the ball shall be kicked off again.
(f) If the ball pitches in touch, touch-in-goal or over or on the dead ball line, the opposing team may accept the kick, have the ball kicked off again, or have a scrummage formed at the centre.
Law 10 (15) as to advantage does not apply in the event of any of the foregoing not being complied with.

LAW 22. Drop-out.
A drop-out is a drop kick taken by the defending team after a touch down or after the ball has touched or crossed the touch-in-goal or dead ball line.
(a) A drop kick must be taken from on or behind the 25 yards line; otherwise the ball shall be dropped out again.
(b) The ball must reach the 25 yards line; otherwise the opposing team may have it dropped out again, or have a scrummage formed at the centre of the 25 yards line. If it reaches the 25 yards line and is then blown back, play shall continue.
(c) All the kicker’s team must be behind the ball when kicked; otherwise a scrummage shall be formed at the centre of the 25 yards line.
(d) The opposing team must not charge over the 25 yards line; otherwise the ball shall be dropped out again.
(e) If the ball pitches in touch, the opposing team may accept the kick, or have the ball dropped out again, or have a scrummage formed at the centre of the 25 yards line.
Law 10 (15) as to advantage does not apply in the event of any of the foregoing not being complied with.

LAW 23. Free Kick.
A free kick is a kick allowed for a fair-catch. It may be taken by a place kick, drop-kick or punt.
(a) A free kick must be taken at or behind the mark on a line through the mark parallel to the touch lines; the kick must be taken by the player making the fair-catch and the ball must reach a line through the mark parallel to the goal lines, unless first played by an opponent.
(b) In the case of a place kick, the ball must not be handled by the kicker after it has been placed on the ground.
(c) In every case the kicker’s team, other than the placer for a place kick, must be behind the ball when the kick is taken, and may follow up.
The opposing team may come up to, but not beyond, a line through the mark parallel to the goal lines, and may charge subject to the following conditions:—
1. In the case of a place kick, as soon as the ball has been placed on the ground.
2. In the case of a drop-kick or punt, as soon as the kicker begins his approach to kick.punt, as soon as the kicker begins his run or offers to kick, provided that if he then draws back with the ball still in his hands, they retire to the line of the mark.

If the mark is in in-goal it shall be deemed to be on the goal line and the ball must cross that line unless first played by an opponent: otherwise the kick must be taken again.

Penalty:—
(i) For infringements by the kicker’s team—a scrummage at the mark.
(ii) For infringements by the opposing team—charge disallowed; if the kick has been taken, the kicker shall be allowed the option of another kick under the original conditions without the charge.

Law 10 (15) as to advantage does not apply in the event of any of the foregoing not being complied with.

If a player who has made a fair-catch is injured in so doing and is unable to take the kick within three minutes, the kick is void, and a scrummage shall be formed at the mark.

If the mark is in in-goal, the scrummage shall be awarded five yards from the goal line on a line through the mark parallel to the touch lines.

LAW 24. Penalty Kick.
A penalty kick is a kick awarded to the non-offending team by reason of an infringement of the Laws by their opponents. It may be taken by a place kick, drop kick or punt.

(a) A penalty kick must be taken at or behind the mark, on a line through the mark parallel to the touch lines. The kick may be taken by any player of the team and for a place kick the kicker may place the ball.

(b) The ball may be kicked in any direction towards the opponents’ goal line but it must travel at least five yards, or to the kicker’s goal line if the kick is taken from behind it. If, however, the kicker has indicated to the Referee that he intends to attempt a kick at goal, it is illegal for him to kick the ball in any other way.

(c) In every case the kicker’s team, other than the placer for a place kick, must be behind the ball until it has been kicked.

(d) All players of the opposing team must retire without delay to or behind a line parallel to the goal lines and ten yards from the mark, or to their own goal line if nearer to the mark, and there remain motionless with their hands by their sides until the ball has been kicked.

(e) It is illegal for any player of the opposing team to prevent the kick from being taken or to interfere with the kicker in any way while he is taking the kick.

Penalty:—
(i) For an infringement by the kicker’s team—a scrummage at the place where the ball was kicked, subject to Law 10 (15).
(ii) For an infringement by the opposing team—if the kick has been taken, the kicker shall have the option of taking another penalty kick under the original conditions.

Law 10 (15) as to advantage does not apply in the event of any of the foregoing not being complied with.

A scrummage may be taken at the mark by the non-offending team in lieu of a penalty kick.

LAW 25. Place Kick at Goal after a Try.
After a try has been scored the scoring team shall have the right to take a place kick at goal in accordance with the following subsections but need not do so.

(a) The ball must be brought into the field-of-play, and be placed on the ground on a line parallel to the touch lines through the place where the try was obtained. Any player of the team may take the kick, but the ball must not be handled by the kicker after it has been placed on the ground.

(b) All the kicker’s team, other than the placer, must be behind the ball when kicked.

(c) The opposing team must be behind the goal line until the ball has been placed on the ground for the kick, when they may charge or jump with a view to touching the ball.

Penalty:—
(i) For an infringement by the kicker’s team—the kick shall be disallowed.
(ii) For an infringement by the opposing team—the charge shall be disallowed; if the kick has been taken, the kicker shall be allowed the option of another kick under the original conditions without the charge.

Under Laws 23 and 25 when a player is placing the ball neither he nor the kicker shall wilfully do anything which may lead their opponents to charge before the ball has been placed on the ground; in the event of either doing so, the charge shall not be disallowed.

LAW 26. Try.
A try is obtained by the act of an attacking player first grounding the ball in his opponents’ in-goal.

A touch-down is obtained by the act of a defending player first grounding the ball in his own in-goal.

A try is scored in the following cases:—
(a) If a player passes, knocks or kicks the ball into his own in-goal, and an opponent first grounds it.
(b) If a team in a scrummage pushes the other team over the latter’s goal line and first grounds the ball in in-goal. If the defending team grounds it, a touch-down shall be awarded.
(c) If a player grounds the ball in his opponents’ in-goal and picks it up again, a try shall be awarded where it was first grounded.
(d) If the momentum of a player when held in possession of the ball carries him into his opponents’ in-goal and he first there grounds the ball, even though it has touched the ground in the field-of-play.

The Referee shall award a try if, in his opinion, one would undoubtedly have been obtained but for the unfair play or unlawful interference of the defending team. Such try shall be awarded between the posts.

A try may be scored by a player who is in touch or in touch-in-goal provided he is not carrying the ball.

When the Referee cannot decide which team first grounded the ball in in-goal, a scrummage shall be formed five yards from the goal line opposite the place where the ball was grounded and the attacking team shall put in the ball.

LAW 27. Touch.
(a) The ball is in touch
(i) when, not being in the possession of a player, it touches or crosses a touch line, or
(ii) when, being in the possession of a player, it or the player carrying it touches a touch line or the ground beyond it.

If the ball crosses a touch line and is then blown back it is in touch at the place where it first crossed the line.

A player may be in touch and yet play the ball with his foot if the ball is not in touch.

(b) The ball must be brought into play by an opponent of the player whom it last touched in the field-of-play, unless such player carrying the ball is physically forced into touch by an opponent, in which case it shall be brought into play by the player so forced, or by one of his team.

In the event of the Touch Judge being unable to decide which team should bring the ball into play, the Referee, if being himself in doubt, shall order the ball to be brought into play by the team in whose half of the ground it has gone into touch.

(c) The ball must be brought into play at the place where it went into touch by throwing it into the field-of-play so as to touch a player or the ground at least five yards from and at right angles to the touch line. If thrown in otherwise, a scrummage shall be formed ten yards from the place where it went into touch on a line parallel to the goal lines.

Law 10 (15) as to advantage does not apply in the event of the foregoing not being complied with.

A player throwing the ball in from touch must not put either foot into the field-of-play, otherwise the ball shall be thrown in again.

(d) Until the ball has been thrown in and has touched a player or the ground as provided under (c), it is illegal for any player participating in the line-out wilfully to
(i) be off-side, contrary to Law 18 (3) (a), or
(ii) push, charge, shoulder or bind with or in any way hold another player of either team, or
(iii) use any other player as a prop to enable him to jump for the ball.

(e) After the ball has touched a player or the ground it is illegal for any player participating in the line-out to
(i) be off-side, contrary to Law 18 (3) (b), or
(ii) push, shoulder or obstruct an opponent not in possession of the ball, or
(iii) charge an opponent otherwise than in an attempt to tackle him or to secure possession of the ball.

If the ball in a line-out becomes unplayable, otherwise than as the result of an infringement for which a penalty is prescribed, the Referee shall order a scrummage.

Penalty:—In the event of an infringement of (d) or (e) or of Law 35 a penalty kick shall be awarded at the place of infringement or ten yards from the touch line on a line through that place at right angles to the touch line, whichever is the farther distance from the touch line.

LAW 28. Wilful Throwing into Touch, etc.
If a player wilfully knocks or throws the ball from the field-of-play into touch, touch-in-goal, or over his own dead ball line, the opposing team shall be awarded a penalty kick at the place where such knock or throw occurred.

LAW 29. Touch-in-Goal.
The ball is in touch-in-goal:—
(a) When, not being in the possession of a player, it touches a corner post, or touches or crosses a touch-in-goal line.
(b) When the ball in a player’s possession or a player carrying it touches a corner post or touches a touch-in-goal line or the ground beyond it.

The flag shall not be regarded as part of the corner post.

LAW 30. Ball, etc., Touching Referee.
If the ball or a player carrying it touches the Referee in the field-of-play a scrummage shall be ordered at that place.

The team of the player who is carrying the ball or last played the ball shall put in the ball.

If the ball in a player’s possession or a player carrying it touches the Referee in that player’s in-goal, a touch-down shall be awarded; and if the ball, while in play in in-goal at either end, but not held by a player, touches the Referee, a Touch Judge, or a spectator, a touch-down shall be awarded, provided that a touch-down would otherwise have been obtained, or the ball would have gone dead. If the issue is in doubt when the ball touches a spectator, a touch-down shall be awarded the visiting team, provided they are the defending team.

If a player crosses his opponents’ goal line with the ball in his possession and, before grounding it, touches the Referee, a try shall be awarded at that place.

If the ball while in play in in-goal at either end, but not held by a player, touches the Referee, a Touch Judge or spectator, a try shall be awarded at that place, provided an attacking player would otherwise have scored it. If the issue is in doubt when the ball touches a spectator, a try shall be awarded at that place to the visiting team, provided they are the attacking team.

LAW 31. Ball Held in In-goal.
If a player in possession of the ball in in-goal is so held that he cannot ground the ball a scrummage shall be formed five yards from the goal line opposite the place where he was held and the attacking team shall put in the ball.

LAW 32. Taking Ball Over Goal Line.
If a defending player heels, kicks, passes, knocks or carries the ball over his own goal line and it there becomes dead except in the case where a try is obtained or as provided for in Law 26 (b) or in Law 28 a scrummage shall be formed five yards from the goal line opposite the place from which it was kicked, passed, knocked or carried back and the attacking team shall put in the ball.

A drop-out shall be awarded if as the result of a kick, pass or knock by an attacking player the ball on its way touches a defender and crosses his goal line and (a) is there made dead by a defender, or (b) crosses the dead ball line or touch-in-goal line.

LAW 33. Infringements in In-goal, etc.
The Referee must disallow a try and award a touch-down if in his opinion a try would undoubtedly not have been gained but for unfair play or unlawful interference on the part of the attacking team.

Subject to Law 26 or Law 34 for infringements in in-goal, the penalty shall be
(a) for an offence by the attacking team—a touch-down, or
(b) for an offence by the defending team—a scrummage five yards from the goal line opposite the place of infringement.

LAW 34. Foul Play, Misconduct.
The following are prohibited:—
(a) Foul play, including:—
1. Wilful hacking, tripping, or striking.
2. Wilfully holding a player not in possession of the ball.
3. Illegal tackling, pushing, charging or obstructing.
4. Wilfully causing a scrummage to collapse.
(b) Misconduct.

Penalty:—For (a) and (b) the Referee shall award a penalty kick at the place of infringement.

(c) Unlawful interference and misconduct while the ball is out of play.

Penalty:—The Referee shall award a penalty kick which may be taken at any place where the ball would next have been brought into play, if the infringement had not occurred. If such a place is on the touch line, the kick shall be taken at a point ten yards from such place on a line parallel to the goal line.

In the event of any infringement under (a), (b) or (c), the Referee should either caution the offending player or order him off the playing enclosure. For a second offence he MUST order him off.

Obstruction or interference must be very sharply dealt with by the Referee. A player must not risk a penalty kick in order to gain or save a try by foul or unfair play.

(d) Persistent infringement of the Laws.

Penalty:—The Referee MUST order the player off the playing enclosure.

If ordered off the player shall take no further part in the match in progress, and the Referee must without delay send his report, naming the player and describing the incident:—
(i) to the Constituent Body to which the player’s club is affiliated or allotted to;
(ii) to the Rugby Football Union if more than one Constituent Body is concerned;
(iii) to the R.F.U. if the club of the player is not affiliated or allotted to a Constituent Body;
(iv) to the International Board in International matches.

(In each case forwarding a copy of his report to his own Referee Society);
(v) to the R.F.U. if he himself does not belong to a Referee Society.

LAW 35. Waste of Time.
Waste of time caused intentionally by any player, or by a team, including the wilful infringement of any Law or Laws for which the penalty is only a scrummage, is illegal.

Penalty:—Penalty kick awarded at the place of infringement.

Persistent infringements MUST be dealt with under Law 34 (c).

LAW 36. Irregularities not Provided for.
When a Law is broken or any irregularity of play not otherwise provided for occurs, and an advantage is gained therefrom by the opposing team, the Referee shall not blow his whistle but shall allow the match to continue; but if no advantage is gained by such team, and if no other procedure is provided, the ball shall be taken back to the place where the breach of the Law or irregularity occurred and a scrummage formed there.



NOTES FOR THE GUIDANCE OF REFEREES.
NOTE.—The lines in the margin indicate alterations or additions to the Notes.

These Notes do not include references to all the alterations made in the Laws of the Game in March, 1954, but to such only of the alterations as require comment now, either to answer a specific query raised since the Laws were published, or to emphasise a particular point.

LAW 1. Field-of-Play.
The Referee should satisfy himself that the ground is properly marked out and that there are only such flags as are shown upon the plan.

Where practicable the intersection of the dead ball line and touch-in-goal line should be indicated by a flag, but the absence of such flags does not constitute a breach of Law 1.

As the goal posts and goal lines are in-goal, a try or touch-down can be obtained on the goal line or if the ball is in contact with the ground and the goal post.

LAW 2. Dead.
A tackle does not make the ball dead.

Fair-catch.
In all cases a mark must definitely be made and claimed audibly, and simultaneously with the catch.

If the catcher raises the toe of one foot from the ground in a manner visible to the Referee, he has made a valid mark, but it must be claimed.

It is not necessary for a player to be standing, or facing his opponents’ dead ball line, when making a fair-catch; nor need he remain stationary after he has made and claimed the mark.

A fair-catch may be awarded to a player who is running when he catches the ball provided that he claims the mark simultaneously with the catch.

A player catching the ball with both feet off the ground cannot be awarded a mark.

If a fair-catch is obtained and claimed the Referee must award the free kick even though the catcher wishes to play on.

See also Note on Law 23.

A fair-catch cannot be made from a rebound.
See also Note on Law 14 (c).

Goal.
A goal should be awarded if in the opinion of the Referee one would undoubtedly have been obtained except for the ball having been illegally touched by a player of the opposing team.

Grounding the Ball.
If the player has only one hand on the ball this hand must be in contact with the upper surface of the ball so that a downward pressure can be exerted.

Knock-on and Rebound.
See Note on Law 14 (c).

A mis-field is not a knock-on unless the ball travels direct from a player’s hand or arm in the direction of his opponents’ dead ball line.

If the ball drops from the hand or arm vertically to the ground it is not a knock-on.

If the ball goes directly from any part of the body, except hand or arm or leg from knee to toe inclusive, in the direction of the opponents’ dead ball line it is a rebound and not a knock-on or a kick.

If the ball goes off the hands backwards on to the chest and then travels in the direction of the opponents’ dead ball line it is a rebound and not a knock-on.

If the ball goes off the hands backwards on to the chest and then on to the hand or arm and finally travels in the direction of the opponents’ dead ball line it is a knock-on.

Throw-forward.
A pass that is parallel to the goal lines is not a throw-forward.

LAW 5. Players’ Dress.
The Referee is entitled to examine the dress of players both before and during the game.

LAW 10. Functions of Referees.
When the Referee awards a penalty kick or when a free kick or kick at goal after a try is being taken, he should make an impression with his heel to indicate the line of the mark and, in the case of a penalty kick, indicate whenever necessary the line to which the opponents must retire without delay.

If the Referee awards a try, not having noticed that the flag was up for “touch,” the law regarding “altering his decision” does not apply, as the ball having previously gone into touch, was out of play, and anything which happened afterwards had no bearing on the game. This does not affect the right of the Referee to over-rule the Touch Judge’s decision, if, in his opinion, the ball or player carrying it, had not been in touch.

Stoppages for injuries must not exceed three minutes; a broken or untied bootlace is not sufficient reason for stopping play.

Where the Referee has reason to believe that a player is feigning injury he should allow play to proceed.

A player ordered off must be reported immediately:—
(1) In International Matches to the International Board.
(2) In all other matches in accordance with the Laws of the player’s Union.

LAW 11. Functions of Touch Judges.
The Touch Judge must not keep his flag up because he considers that the ball has been thrown in from the wrong place; that is for the Referee to decide.

If during play it is noticed that a Touch Judge has his flag up or has kept it up and the Referee is not aware of the reason, the game should be allowed to continue until the ball has become dead; the Referee should then ascertain the reason from the Touch Judge. Unless the Referee is satisfied that the Touch Judge is entitled to raise it or keep it raised, the game should be re-started from where the ball became dead.

LAW 14 (c). Charged-down Kick.
Play should be allowed to proceed without a scrummage in the case where the ball is knocked on by a player who is in the act of charging down the kick of an opponent. It should be noted that the player must be advancing towards the kicker and the Referee must be satisfied that the player is “in the act of charging down” and not attempting to catch the ball. The clause applies to any player who is on-side either in the field-of-play or in in-goal.

A fair-catch can be made from such a knock-on.

LAW 15 (B) (2). Scrummage.
When a scrummage is ordered, one team is not entitled to gain ground at the expense of the other before the ball is put in. If it does so, the scrummage should be brought back to the original place, and the Referee should ensure that the retiring team is not put at a disadvantage by the ball being put in while the retirement is taking place.

If an infringement or stoppage for which the correct decision is a scrummage takes place so near a goal line that it is impossible for all the players in the scrummage to be in the field-of-play, the scrummage should nevertheless be awarded at the place where the infringement occurred.

If an infringement or stoppage takes place near a touch line, the Referee should ensure that the whole of any ensuing scrummage is in the field-of-play before the ball is put in.

LAW 15 (B) (3).
It is illegal for any player at any time to add himself to the front row of a scrummage. The Referee should be careful to ensure that no outside player of the second row of 3-4-1 formation adds himself to the front row.

LAW 15 (B) (4).
An outside player in a “set” scrummage must not pull or push any opponent with his loose arm; and the Referee should insist that such an outside player may hold an opponent with his loose arm only for the purpose of, and to the extent necessary for, keeping himself and the scrummage in a steady position.

LAW 15 (B) (6).
A player having chosen the side on which he wishes to put the ball in cannot alter his decision.

In the case of a scrummage which does not follow an infringement the Referee in the past almost invariably ordered the ball to be put in by the defending team. This is not in accordance with either the old Law 15 (a) or the new Law 15 (B) (6). In such cases the Referee must attempt to fix the responsibility for the stoppage of play, e.g., where without any infringement, play cannot be carried on after a player has been tackled or after a rush has been stopped by a player falling on the ball. In many such cases the Referee will find that the defending team is responsible for the stoppage of play and that the attacking team should put in the ball.

A team must put in the ball when ordered to do so.

LAW 15 (B) (7).
The Referee has no authority to permit delay in putting in the ball because a player has not succeeded in getting his head down in the scrummage; he should also penalise the player with the ball who delays so that members of his team, additional to the front row, can join the scrummage.

LAW 15 (B) (9).
The Referee must give effect to the resolution of the International Board which states that:—
“Necessity exists for strict and uniform observance of the laws against premature advancing and raising of feet in the front row, particularly where such premature advancing or raising of feet (a) prevents the ball from entering the scrummage, or (b) prevents the ball from touching the ground, or (c) prevents the far foot of the middle player from first touching the ball.”

The Referee should enforce strictly Law 15 (B) (9) and should ensure that all players in the front row keep their feet sufficiently far back. It is an offence for either second player to advance his foot to the middle line before the time at which he is entitled to raise or advance that foot under Law 15 (B) (11).

LAW 15 (B) (10).
When the ball has come out of the scrummage in any of the ways indicated by the arrows in the following diagrams it must be put in again.

If the ball passes between the feet of the outside players of either front row on the side on which it has been put in, then no matter what subsequently happens to it, it must be put in again.

The Referee has no discretion to order the ball to be put in again unless it has come out as indicated in the diagrams.

LAW 15 (B) (11).
A foot of either front row may follow the scrummage provided that it does so without infringing Law 15 (B) (9), (11) and (12).

LAW 15 (A) and (B).
It is illegal for an outside player in a scrummage to move outwards when the ball has been obtained by his team and is emerging from the back of the scrummage, thereby preventing an opponent from getting round the scrummage. This amounts to obstruction, even if he maintains contact with the scrummage. Such a player is also off-side if he is in front of the ball and is not binding with either arm a player of his own team in the scrummage.

See Law 18 (2).

LAW 16 (a). Tackle.
It is left entirely to the Referee to decide whether a player is tackled as defined in Law 2.

LAW 16 (b) (c).
Should the Referee decide that a tackle has occurred he must insist on the ball being released immediately, and struggling should be stopped by one of the following methods:—
(1) Award a penalty kick if able to judge which team is responsible for the ball not being released.
(2) Award a scrummage if unable to do so and order the team that is less responsible for the stoppage of play to put in the ball.

LAW 16 (b).
A player who is tackled but not brought to the ground must immediately release the ball. He is not obliged to release the ball so that it falls to the ground between himself and his opponents’ goal line, and he is forbidden to delay or waste time by so doing.

LAW 16 (d).
A player lying on the ground may, except in a scrummage or after a tackle, reach out and get possession of the ball, or pass or kick the ball without getting up.

LAW 17. Lying on the Ball.
A player on both knees, in possession of the ball, may go forward whilst in that position, provided he has not been tackled.

LAW 18. Off-side.
A player can be off-side in his own in-goal.

See Note on Law 33 re infringements in in-goal.

In general play, i.e., apart from a scrummage or a line-out, a player is off-side only if he is in front of one of his own team who last played the ball. Such a player does not incur any penalty because he is off-side; he is penalised only if, being off-side, he takes part in play in one of the ways specified in Law 18 (1).

On the other hand, when a scrummage or a line-out is forming or is taking place a player is penalised if he is off-side and because of that alone.

LAW 18 (1) (c).
The Referee should whistle at once if an off-side player following up a kick charges within ten yards of an opponent waiting to receive the ball. Delay may prove dangerous to the latter.

LAW 18 (2) (b) and (c).
The Referee must specially note and enforce in a strict and uniform manner the provisions of (b) and (c) of Law 18 (2):—

Clause (b) applies only to the “loiterers,” those players who, in broken play, are in front of the ball when a scrummage is forming, or has been formed, e.g., after a rush. Such players must retire behind the ball without delay, and the Referee must penalise any player who delays.

Clause (c) applies to all players not in the scrummage, including the “loiterers” who have retired in obedience to (b). These players may not in any circumstances advance either foot beyond the ball while it is in the scrummage.

The Referee must enforce this Law in every case and should note that no question arises as to whether the player has advanced beyond the ball intentionally or accidentally, or whether or not he went back at once from the off-side position, or whether or not he in fact obstructed or interfered with an opponent.

See last paragraph of Note on Law 15.

LAW 18 (3) (a) and (b).
The Referee must also enforce Law 18 (3) strictly. In that case, also, no question arises as to the player’s intentions or as to whether or not he remains in the off-side position. If he is off-side he must be penalised at once.

LAW 19 (c).
If the ball, after being kicked, accidentally touches an opponent, off-side players of the kicker’s team are not thereby put on-side. If, on the contrary, a player attempts to charge down a kick and the ball touches any part of his body, off-side players of the opposing team are put on-side.

LAW 20. Charging and Obstruction.
An off-side player wilfully running or standing in front of another of his team who is in possession of the ball, thereby preventing an opponent from reaching the latter player, should be penalised for obstruction. Similarly, a penalty kick for obstruction should be given if a player with the ball shields himself behind one of his own team.

See last paragraph of Note on Law 15.

LAW 21. Kick-off.
In the case of a drop kick, if the kicker crosses the line the kick must be retaken.

LAW 23. Free Kick.
If the charge is disallowed or a second kick awarded, the kicker may alter the type of kick.

If the Referee blows his whistle when a fair-catch has been made, a free kick must be taken, even if the mark is in in-goal unless an opponent unfairly charges the catcher, in which case, if in the field-of-play, a penalty kick shall be substituted, or if in in-goal a touch-down allowed.

If the mark is in in-goal it shall be deemed to have been made on the goal line. In the case of a kick being taken from behind the goal line the ball is in play if an opponent legitimately plays it before it crosses the goal line, and a try may be scored.

LAW 25. Place Kick at Goal after a Try.
If a player is taking a place kick at goal, kicks the ball from the placer’s hands without the ball being on the ground, the kick is void, and no second kick is allowed.

If an intending kicker handles the ball after it has been placed on the ground for a kick at goal, the Referee should disallow the kick even though “no-charge has been given.”

If the Referee whistles for no-charge as the kick is in the act of being taken, and a goal results, it should stand, but if not, the kicker should have another kick under the original conditions without the charge.

The Referee should see that the opposing players do not gradually creep up, and that they have both feet behind the mark or goal line, otherwise he should disallow the charge.

Shouting by the defending team during a kick at goal should be treated as “misconduct,” and if no goal is scored, another kick should be allowed without the charge.

Where another kick is allowed for any reason, all the original preliminaries may be retaken but in no circumstances is the kicker allowed to touch the ball when it is in contact with the ground while it is being placed or has been placed for the kick.

LAW 24. Penalty Kick.
The Referee must first mark the place where the penalty is awarded, and where necessary indicate the line to which the offending team must retire. He must ensure that all of the offending team begin at once to retire to that line.

When the Referee has indicated the mark, the penalty kick may be taken at once provided all of the kicker’s team are behind him.

The kicker need not wait until all of the opposing team have retired to the line defined in Law 24 (d), but the latter are bound to retire without delay and, while doing so, are bound not to interfere in any way with the kicker or with any opponent not in possession of the ball.

When the ball has been kicked and has travelled five yards or reached a goal line, any opponent who has complied with Law 24 (d) may play the ball. Neither the kicker nor any of his team may touch the ball until it has travelled five yards, or has first been played by an opponent in in-goal.

If the kicker is taking a kick at goal, all players of the opposing team must remain passive from the time the kicker commences his run until the kick has been taken.

If the kicker takes a drop kick and a goal results, the goal stands even though the kicker has not indicated to the Referee an intention to kick at goal.

The indication of intention to kick at goal may be given either orally or by any action of the kicker which conveys such an intention, e.g., by commencing to make a hole for a place kick. The Referee may ask the kicker to state his intention.

If a second kick is allowed on account of an infringement by the opposing team, the same player must take the kick, but it need not be the same type of kick as taken in the first instance.

LAW 25. Place Kick at Goal after a Try.
A kick at goal is optional and if not taken the game should be restarted by a drop kick from the centre.

LAW 26. Try.
When a player is so held that it would have constituted a tackle in the field-of-play it is not to be so regarded if his momentum carries him into his opponents’ in-goal and he first there grounds the ball.

LAW 27. Touch.
If in the opinion of the Referee a player purposely throws in “not straight” from touch, or purposely fails to throw the ball five yards, a penalty kick should be awarded, and should the player afterwards persist, he must be dealt with under Law 34 (d).

A player may run up from behind the line-out and take the ball from the throw-in if there is a gap, but should he whilst doing so run into another player of either team a penalty kick for charging must be awarded under Law 27 (e)(ii).

LAW 28. Wilful Throwing into Touch, etc.
Unless a player wilfully throws or knocks the ball into touch from the field-of-play it is not an offence under this Law. A player may knock or throw the ball into touch-in-goal from in-goal provided it is not knocked or thrown forward.

LAW 32. Taking Ball Over Goal Line.
The first paragraph of this Law applies regardless of the intentions of the defending player.

The second paragraph applies only in cases where the ball is kicked or propelled by an attacker and “on its way” touches a defender who does not by any wilful act cause the ball to travel across the goal line.

LAW 33. Infringements in In-goal, etc.
The decisions open to the Referee for infringements in in-goal are:—
(1) For an offence by the attacking team
(a) a touch-down, or
(b) warning and/or sending off under Law 34, or
(c) a penalty kick under Law 34 (c).
(2) For an offence by the defending team
(a) a five yards scrummage, or
(b) a penalty try, or
(c) warning and/or sending off under Law 34, or
(d) a penalty kick under Law 34 (c).

A penalty try should be awarded for an offence in in-goal only when by foul play as specified in Law 34 the defending team has saved a try.

A penalty kick must not be awarded for an offence in in-goal except only when Law 34 (c) applies.

LAW 34 (a) (1). Foul Play, Misconduct.
Tripping means tripping with the feet.

LAW 34 (a) (2).
Law 34 provides that the Referee must deal very sharply with obstruction or interference. This includes the offence of “wilfully holding a player not in possession of the ball,” for which caution and/or sending off of the offender is provided in the Law.

LAW 34 (a) (4).
If the Referee is satisfied that a player has wilfully caused a scrummage to collapse or that as a result of any wilful infringement by a player the scrummage has collapsed, he should either caution the player or order him off the field. For a second infringement he must order him off.

LAW 34 (d). Persistent Infringement.
Persistent offenders are a nuisance to other players and spoil the enjoyment of the match. They should be put out of the game.

The Referee should note that persistent infringement is a question of fact and not a question of whether the offender intended to infringe Law 34 (d). If the same player has to be penalised many times the Referee should treat him as coming within the category of a persistent offender and send him off under Law 34 (d).

Persistent infringements may arise mainly in connection with Laws 15, 18 and 27. If a player has been penalised for infringing the provisions of one of these Laws three times in the same match, the Referee should warn that player that he is offending persistently and that he will be sent off the field if he offends in the same way again. If notwithstanding the warning, the player does so, he must be sent off.

It is a question for the Referee whether or not a series of the same offences by different players of a team amounts to persistent infringement. If he considers that it does, he should give a general warning to that team and, if the offence is repeated, he must send the offending player off the field.

The International Board and the Unions in membership with it will fully support Referees in the strict and uniform enforcement of Law 34 (d) in the manner indicated above.