THE LAWS
OF THE
GAME OF FOOTBALL
AS PLAYED BY
THE RUGBY FOOTBALL UNION.

N.B.—The annotations to various rules have been collated from the International Board's latest issue.

I. Introduction.

1. The Rugby Game of Football should be played by 15 players on each side. The field-of-play shall not exceed 110 yards in length, nor 75 in breadth, and shall be as near these dimensions as practicable. The lines defining the boundary of the field-of-play shall be suitably marked, and shall be called the goal-lines at the ends and the touch-lines at the sides. On each goal-line and equidistant from the touch-lines shall be two upright posts, called goal-posts, exceeding 11 feet in height, and placed 18 feet 6 inches apart, and joined by a cross-bar 10 feet from the ground; and the object of the game shall be to kick the ball over this cross-bar and between the posts. The game shall be played with an oval ball of as nearly as possible the following size and weight, namely—

Length ... 11 to 11 1/2 in.
Length circumference ... 30 to 31 in.
Width circumference ... 25 1/2 to 26 in.
Weight ... 13 to 14 1/2 oz.
Hand sewn and not less than 8 stitches to the inch.

NOTE.—It is the duty of the visiting team to see that the ground complies with Law I as to size, and is properly marked, and the dead-ball line is distinct, etc., and it is the duty of each side to see that their opponents do not play more than 15 men. If they fail to see to these points before the game begins, no appeal can afterwards be entertained in relation thereto, except in regard to the last-mentioned point which can be objected to during the game, but such objection will not affect any score made prior thereto.

II. Glossary.—Duties of Officials.—Scoring.

2. The following terms occur in the laws, and have the respective meanings attached to each—

Dead-Ball Lines. Not more than 25 yards behind and equidistant from each goal line, and parallel thereto, shall be lines which shall be called the Dead-Ball Lines, and if the ball or player holding the ball touch or cross these lines the ball shall be dead and out of play.

In-Goal. Those portions of the ground immediately at the ends of the field of play and between the touch-lines, produced to the dead-ball lines, are called In-Goal. The goal-lines are called In-Goal.

NOTE.—As the goal-line is in-goal a try or touch-down may be obtained thereon.
If a player holding the ball in his own in-goal touches the referee, the ball is dead at the spot, and a drop out must be taken; except in the case of a player having run back behind his own goal-line, in which case the ball must be scrummaged at the spot whence it was carried back. Similarly a player who crosses the opponents’ goal-line with the ball in his possession, and before grounding it touches the referee, shall be allowed a try at the spot.

Touch. Those portions of the ground immediately at the sides of the field of play and between the goal-lines, if produced, are called Touch. The touch-lines and all posts and flags marking these lines, or the centre, or 25 yards lines, are in Touch.

NOTE.—A player may be in touch and yet play the ball with his foot if the ball be not in touch.
A player, provided he is not carrying the ball, may be in touch and yet score a try by touching the ball down with his hands.
The ball blown over the touch-line and blown back shall be considered as in touch.

Touch-in-Goal. Those portions of the ground immediately at the four corners of the field-of-play and between the goal and touch-lines, if respectively produced, are called Touch-in-Goal. The corner posts and flags are in Touch-in-Goal.

NOTE.—If the ball or a player holding it touch one of the corner posts or flags prior to touching down, the ball must be considered as in touch-in-goal. A player may himself be in touch-in-goal and yet play the ball with his foot, if the ball be not in touch-in-goal; or he may, provided he is not carrying the ball, touch it down with his hands and score a try.

A Drop-kick is made by letting the ball fall from the hands and kicking it as it rises.

A Place-kick is made by kicking the ball after it has been placed on the ground for the purpose.

A Punt is made by letting the ball fall from the hands and kicking it before it touches the ground.

A Tackle is when the holder of the ball is held by one or more players of the opposite side so that he cannot at any moment while he is so held, pass or play it.

NOTE.—When a player is tackled with the ball it can only be brought into play with the foot, but if a player carrying the ball be thrown or knocked over (but not tackled), and the ball touches the ground, he may nevertheless get up with it and continue his run or pass it.

A Scrummage, which can only take place in the field-of-play, is formed by one or more players from each side closing round the ball when it is on the ground, or by their closing up in readiness to allow the ball to be put on the ground between them.

NOTE.—The referee may order the ball to be put into the scrummage from either side he may choose.
A player shall be considered as wilfully preventing a ball being fairly put into a scrummage under Law 11 (l) if before the ball is fairly in the scrummage—
(a) He moves either of his feet beyond the front line of his forwards.
(b) Follows the ball into the scrummage with either foot.

A Try is gained by the player who first puts his hand on the ball on the ground in his opponents’ In-goal.

NOTE.—It is a try if a player passes or kicks the ball back behind his own goal-line and the ball is touched down by one of his opponents.
When an attacking side in a scrummage pushes the defending side over the goal-line and touches the ball down a try should be allowed, but if the ball be touched down by the defending side a touch-down should be allowed.
If a player touches the ball down behind his opponents’ goal line and picks it up again he should be allowed a try at the spot where it was first touched down.
In the case of the ball rolling over the goal-line and touching a spectator before a player of either side has had time to touch it down the referee shall:
(a) Award a touch-down if he considers the ball would have gone dead before any attacking player could have touched it, or that a defending player would have touched it first.
(b) Award a try if he thinks but for the interference a try would have been scored.
(c) If in doubt give the point against the side responsible for the ground arrangements, and in doing so he shall regard all officials and spectators as offending players on the home side.
A player who crosses the opponents’ goal line with the ball in his possession, and before grounding it touches the referee, shall be allowed a try at the spot.
If the ball not in possession of a player strikes the referee or touch-judge when in in-goal, a try should be awarded to the attacking side if, in the referee's opinion, a try would undoubtedly have been obtained but for the ball touching the referee or touch-judge. The referee shall award a touch-down if he considers the ball would have gone dead or have been touched down by a defending player before any attacking player could have touched it.

A Touch-Down is when a player touches down as above in his own In-goal.

A Goal is obtained by kicking the ball from the field-of-play, by any place-kick except a kick-off, or by any drop-kick except a drop-out, without touching the ground or any player of either side over the opponents’ cross-bar, whether it touch such cross-bar or either goal-post or not.

NOTE.—A goal is scored if the ball has crossed the bar although it may be blown back afterwards.
A kicker and a placer must be distinct persons, and the kicker may not under any circumstances touch the ball when on the ground, even though the charge has been disallowed.

Knocking-on and Throwing-Forward, are propelling the ball by the hand or arm in the direction of the opponents’ In-goal; a throw out of touch cannot be claimed as a throw-forward.

NOTE.—A rebound is not a knock-on and therefore no fair-catch can be made therefrom or a penalty given. This is important as some referees appear to regard a rebound as a knock-on. If a ball is passed back, but after alighting on the ground is blown forward, the pass is good, provided the ball did not alight in front of the passer.

A Fair-Catch is a catch made direct from a kick or knock-on, or throw forward by one of the opposite side, the catcher must immediately claim the same by making a mark with his heel at the spot where he made the catch.

NOTE.—If a player kicks the ball with his knee, or any part below it, and an opponent makes a fair-catch, a free-kick should be awarded.
A fair catch can only be claimed by the catcher making his mark after he has caught the ball; the mark, however, must be made as soon after the ball is caught as possible; and in practice referees might allow a claim when the mark was simultaneously made with the catching. A fair-catch can be made in a player's own in-goal.

Kick-off is a place kick from the centre of the field-of-play; the opposite side may not stand within ten yards of the ball, nor charge until the ball be kicked, otherwise another kick-off shall be allowed. If the ball pitch in touch, the opposite side may accept the kick, have the ball kicked off again, or scrummaged in the centre of the ground.

Drop-out is a drop-kick from within 25 yards of the kicker’s goal-line; within which distance the opposite side may not charge, otherwise another drop-out shall be allowed. If the ball pitch in touch the opposite side may accept the kick, have the ball dropped out again, or scrummaged in the centre of the 25 yards line.

At kick-off the ball must reach the limit of ten yards, and at drop-out must reach the 25 yards line. If otherwise, the opposite side may have the ball re-kicked or scrummaged, at the centre or in the middle of the 25 yards line, as the case may be.

NOTE.—A ball from a kick-off having reached 10 yards, and then been blown back, shall be considered as in play; as also a ball having reached the 25 yards line from a drop-out, and blown back.
The limit of 10 yards means that distance parallel with the touch lines.
If a player goes beyond the 25 yards to drop-out, or if he punts, the referee must blow his whistle and order the player to take a new kick, which must be a drop within the 25 yards limit.
Referees should not allow players to approach within 10 yards of the half-way line at a kick-off.

Off-side. See Laws 7 and 8.

Referee and Touch-Judges.

3. In all matches a Referee and two Touch-Judges must be appointed, the former being mutually agreed upon. The Referee must carry a whistle, the blowing of which shall stop the game; he must whistle in the following cases: —
(a) When a player makes and claims a fair catch.
(b) When he notices rough or foul play or misconduct. For the first offence he shall either caution the player or order him off the ground, but for the second offence he must order him off. If ordered off, the player must be reported by him to this Union.

NOTE.—Law 3 (b) also covers the case of wilful obstruction or interference. Referees must deal very sharply with all cases of this nature, as this has been a growing practice through players deciding to take the risk of a penalty to gain or save a try by unfair play. This practice is so contrary to the spirit of the game that the Board have decided to deal with it upon the same footing as rough or foul play or misconduct.
If the referee orders a man off, he must not allow him to take part in the game again, and must report him to the Board. The referee should also report to his Union any player he has had to warn.

(c) When he considers that the continuation of the play is dangerous.

NOTE.—The latter point must be left entirely to the referee, but the Board wish to point out that if the tackled player played the laws in the spirit in which they are written, and at once fairly parted with the ball, very few cases of danger would arise; but by holding on a short time danger may arise. In such a case the referee should whistle and award the penalty of a free kick instead of simply ordering a scrummage on the plea of danger, as by so doing he deprives one side of an advantage, and does not inflict a penalty on the other, both of which are deserved.
If a player be hurt the referee should not whistle till the ball be dead, unless such hurt player is in a position that the continuance of play might entail further danger, and in no case should he permit a stoppage of play for more than three minutes.

(d) When he wishes to stop the game for any purpose.

NOTE.—See foot-note under Section (j) of new Law.

(e) If the ball or a player running with the ball touch him, in which case it shall be scrummaged at the spot.

NOTE.—A player crossing the opponents' goal-line with the ball in his possession, and then, before grounding it, touches the referee, should be allowed a try at the spot where he touched him.
If the ball not in possession of a player strikes the referee or touch-judge when in in-goal, a try should be scored for the attacking side, if, in the referee's opinion, a try would undoubtedly have been obtained but for the ball touching the referee or touch-judge; otherwise a drop-out from the 25 should be ordered.
If a player running with the ball out from his own in-goal touches the referee, the ball is dead at the spot where he touches him and a drop-out must be taken; except in the case of a player having run back behind his own goal-line, in which case the ball must be scrummaged at the spot whence it was carried back.

(f) At half-time and no-side, he being the sole timekeeper having sole power to allow extra time for delays, but he shall not whistle for half-time or no-side until the ball be held or out of play.

NOTE.—At half-time the interval is not to exceed five minutes.

(g) When he notices any irregularity of play whereby the side committing such gain an advantage.

NOTE.—This is a most important Law and at present is not so generally observed by referees as it should be. There is unfortunately a pronounced tendency on their part to whistle immediately a law has been infringed without waiting to see who gains the advantage of the infringement. The referee should not whistle when the non-offending side gain an advantage.

(h) When he notices a breach of Laws 5 and 15.
(i) When he wishes to enforce any penalty.
(j) When a goal is kicked.
(k) When the ball goes into touch-in-goal.

NOTE.—No power is given to a referee to whistle simply because a player is tackled with the ball, and this is one of the most important points to which the Board wish to direct the attention of players and referees, as the habit of whistling the moment a man is tackled spoils the game by slowing it down and taking away any advantage a side of quick followers-up would otherwise gain. When a player with the ball is tackled, a referee may only blow his whistle for one of the following cases.
(1) Law 11 (b). When such player does not at once fairly put the ball down.
(2) Law 11 (c). When such player is on the ground and he does not at once fairly part with the ball, and either get up or roll away from the ball.
If a player breaks either of the above sub-sections, or interferes with the ball in any way while he is lying on the ground, the penalty of a free-kick should be enforced against him.
(3) Law 11 (d). When a player of the opposite side prevents such player either putting the ball down or getting up, the penalty of a free-kick shall be enforced against him.
The Board desire to urge referees to pay greater attention to this Law, and also to Law 20.

Powers of Referee.

The Referee shall be sole judge in all matters of fact, but as to matters of law, there shall be the right of appeal to this Union.

NOTE—A referee, once he has given a decision, cannot alter it, and his decision alone is final. He may, however, consult the touch judges in case of touch and touch-in-goal play; and when they are taking posts at kicks at goal, but the fact that it is now the duty of touch-judges to stand at the goal posts when kicks at goal are being taken does not affect the right of the referee to decide for himself whether a goal has been kicked or not, in the same way as he may decide whether the ball has gone into touch or not, he being the sole judge of matters of fact. Under all circumstances the referee's whistle must stop the game, even if blown inadvertently, and the referee's decision as to time must be final, even if he has kept it inaccurately. On no account must the referee consult with any outsider, except in the case of a failure of his watch, when he should in the first instance consult the touch-judges.

Duty of Touch Judges.

The Touch-Judges shall carry flags, and shall each take one side of the ground, outside the field of play, and the duty of each shall be to hold up his flag when and where the ball goes into touch, or touch-in-goal, and also to assist the Referee, when kicks at goal from a try, fair-catch, or free-kicks are being taken, each standing at a goal-post.

NOTE.—It may here be emphasised that the referee is the sole judge as to matters of fact, and if he considers either touch-judge is not doing his duty fairly he not only has the right, but should certainly exercise it, of over-ruling any decision such touch-judge may give.
It is the duty of the touch-judge, subject to the decision of the referee, to say to which side he considers the ball in touch belongs.

4. The Captains of the respective sides shall toss for the choice of In-goals or the kick-off. Each side shall play an equal time from each In-goal, and a match shall be won by a majority of points; if no points be scored, or the number be equal, the match shall be drawn.

The following shall be the mode of scoring: —

A Try ... equals 3 points
A Goal from a Try (in which case the Try shall not count) ... equals 5 points
A Dropped Goal (except from a Mark or a Penalty kick) ... equals 4 points
Goal from a Mark or Penalty kick ... equals 3 points

III. Mode of Play.

Kick-off.

5. At the time of the kick-off all the kicker’s side shall be behind the ball; if any be in front, the Referee shall blow his whistle and order a scrummage where the kick-off took place.
The game shall be started by a kick-off: —
(a) After a goal by the side losing such goal, and
(b) After half-time by the opposite side to that which started the game.

Mode of Play—Definitions

6. When once the game is started, the ball may be kicked or picked up and run with by any player who is on-side, at any time: except that it may not be picked up—
(a) In a Scrummage.
(b) When it has been put down after a tackle.
(c) When it is on the ground after a player has been tackled.

NOTE.—When a player is tackled with the ball it can only be brought into play with the foot.

It may be passed or knocked from one player to another provided it be not passed, knocked or thrown forward. If a player while holding or running with the ball be tackled, he MUST at once put it fairly down between him and his opponents’ Goal-line.

Off-side.

7. A player is placed off-side if he enters a scrummage from his opponents’ side, or if the ball has been kicked, touched, or is being run with by one of his own side behind him. A player can be off-side in his opponents' In-goal, but not in his own, except where one of his side takes a free-kick behind his goal line, in which case all of his side must be behind the ball when kicked.

NOTE—A player may play in any position, so long as he is on-side and does not obstruct his opponents. He may come up to a scrummage and attempt to hook the ball out with his foot, provided the other foot is behind the ball.

8. An off-side player is placed on-side: —
(a) When an opponent has run five yards with the ball.
(b) When the ball has been kicked by, or has touched an opponent.
(c) When one of his side has run in front of him with the ball.
(d) When one of his side has run in front of him, having kicked the ball when behind him.

NOTE.—A player must be in the field-of-play when he puts his men on-side after kicking the ball when behind them. Whilst he is not debarred from starting running up in touch, he must get into the field-of-play as soon as possible. It must be observed, that only the kicker can place the off-side players on-side.

An off-side player shall not play the ball, nor actively or passively obstruct an opponent, or approach or wilfully remain within ten yards of any opponent waiting for the ball; on any breach of this law, the opposite side shall be awarded, at their option: —
(e) A free kick, the place of such breach being taken as the mark.
(f) A scrummage at the spot where the ball was last played by the offending side before such breach occurred.
Except in the case of unintentional off-side, when a scrummage shall be formed where such breach occurred.

NOTE.—It is important that referees should more strictly enforce these penalties, and it should be observed that a referee must award a free-kick if he thinks a fair-catch would have been made had not an off-side player, through his proximity and not retiring beyond the 10 yards limit, have rendered such catch more difficult. For instance, a player waiting to receive the ball fails to catch it properly and it drops from his hands to the ground. An opponent who is off-side and who is standing or has approached within 10 yards of him immediately pounces upon him and prevents him recovering and playing the ball. A free-kick should be awarded as it was the duty of the off-side player to have retired beyond the 10 yards limit. Referees too often give offending players the benefit of unintentional off-side instead of inflicting the free-kick penalty.
A player when off-side can intercept a pass from an opposing player, but he can only make a mark for a fair-catch if the pass intercepted is a forward one.
The Board has ruled that a player who has made a mis-kick when the opposite side is charging and the ball hits one of his own off-side players, cannot claim a scrummage for unintentional off-side, provided the charging side gain an advantage, even though that be a try.

Fair-catch.

9. If a player makes a fair-catch a free-kick shall be awarded, even though the whistle has been blown for a knock-on or a throw-forward. Any player on the same side may take the kick or place the ball.

Free-kicks.

10. All free kicks may be place-kicks, drop-kicks, or punts, but must be in the direction of the opponents’ goal line, and across the kicker’s goal-line, if kicked from behind the same. They may be taken at any spot behind the mark in a line parallel to the touch lines. In all cases the kicker’s side must be behind the ball when it is kicked, except the player who may be placing the ball for a place kick, and it is the duty of the Referee to see that the ball be kicked from the parallel line. In the case of any infringement of this law the Referee shall order a scrummage at the mark. The opposite side may come up to, and charge from anywhere on or behind a line drawn through the mark and parallel to the goal lines, and may charge as soon as the kicker commences to run or offers to kick or the ball be placed on the ground for a place kick, but in case of a drop kick or punt the kicker may always draw back, and unless he has dropped the ball the opposite side must retire to the line of the mark. But if any of the opposite side do charge before the player having the ball commences to run or offers to kick, or the ball has touched the ground for a place kick (and this applies to tries at goal as well as free-kicks), provided the kicker has not taken his kick, the charge may be disallowed.

NOTE.—In cases of players waiting to charge when a kick after a try, fair catch, or a free-kick is about to be taken, they must remain behind the goal line or behind the mark with both feet, and any standing over the goal-line or over the mark with one foot shall be considered to have charged and the referee shall blow his whistle and award no charge; the referee shall also be particular that any side waiting behind the mark do not gradually come up beyond the mark, which act shall be considered as a charge. When a player is placing the ball he shall not wilfully do anything which may lead his opponents to think he has put the ball down when he has not; if he does the charge shall not be disallowed. Even when a charge has been disallowed the would-be chargers may, provided they remain behind the mark, jump up and attempt to stop or touch the ball; if they do so touch it, no goal can be scored.
If a referee whistles to disallow a charge just as a kicker takes his kick such kicker shall have the option of another kick, that is, if he has kicked a goal he can allow it to stand, if he has not, he can take a second kick.
If a free-kick has been granted, and after a charge by the defending side has been disallowed, the kicker touches the ball when it is on the ground, the referee must order a scrummage.
Any player except the kicker may place or, after a charge has been disallowed, replace the ball, or alter the spot for a place kick.

IV. Penalties.

11. Free-kicks by way of penalties shall be awarded if any player—

(a) Intentionally either handles the ball, or falls down in a scrummage, or picks the ball out of a scrummage, or picks it up in a scrummage, either by hands or legs. [Margin note: Intentionally either handling or falling in scrummage.]
(b) Does not immediately put it down in front of him, on being tackled. [Margin note: Not putting down when tackled.]
(c) Being on the ground, does not immediately get up. [Margin note: Lying on ground and preventing to get up.]

NOTE.—Players must understand that the penalty will be inflicted if they interfere with the ball in any way while they are lying on the ground.

(d) Prevents an opponent getting up, or putting the ball down.
(e) Illegally tackles, charges, or obstructs, as in Law 8. [Margin note: Illegally Obstructing, etc.]
(f) Wilfully tackles an opponent who has not got the ball.
(g) Wilfully hacks, hacks-over, or trips-up.

NOTE.—Although a penalty of a free kick is now given, the referee should still caution a player or even order him off the ground if such hacking or tripping up constitutes rough play.

(h) Wilfully puts the ball unfairly into a scrummage, or, the ball having come out, wilfully returns it by hand or foot into the scrummage. [Margin note: Putting Ball down.]
(i) Not himself running for the ball, charges or obstructs an opponent not holding the ball. [Margin note: Illegal Charge.]

NOTE.—In cases where two opposing players are running for the ball, a player overtaking another may not shove the overtaken player from behind. If he does it is illegal and should be penalised by a free kick. This would not, however, apply when the overtaken player has reached the ball and was stooping down to pick it up. A player running at the ball may charge an opponent also running at the ball, but such charge may only be shoulder to shoulder.

(j) Shouts “all on side,” or words to that effect, when his players are not on side.

NOTE.—This is intended to apply chiefly to a back having kicked the ball and while following up he, or others of his side, shout “on-side” when he has not yet placed his side “on side.”

(k) Not in a scrummage, wilfully obstructs his opponents’ backs by remaining on his opponents’ side of the ball when it is in a scrummage.

NOTE.—This prohibits forwards as well as backs standing in front of the ball so as to mark the opposing backs, and should be strictly enforced. While wishful to emphasise this, the Board would also point out that it is not intended thereby to penalise a half-back who unintentionally over-runs the ball in a scrummage.

(l) Wilfully prevents the ball being fairly put into a scrummage.

NOTE.—Loose head is to be dealt with as “wilfully preventing” under this head.

(m) If any player or team wilfully and systematically break any law or laws, for which the penalty is only a scrummage, or cause unnecessary loss of time.
(n) Being in a scrummage, lift a foot from the ground before the ball has been put into such scrummage.

The places of infringement shall be taken as the mark, and any one of the side granted the free kick may place or kick the ball.

On breach of sub-section (j) the opposite side shall be awarded at their option—
(a) A scrummage where the ball was last played.
(b) A free kick at the place of infringement.

V. General.

Ball in Touch.

12. The ball is in touch when it, or a player carrying it, touch or cross the touch line; it shall then belong to the side opposite to that last touching it in the field of play, except when a player carrying the ball is forced into touch by an opponent. One of the side to whom the ball belongs shall bring it into play at the spot where it went into touch, by one of the following methods: —
(a) Throwing it out so as to alight at right-angles to the touch-line, or
(b) Scrummaging it at any spot at right-angles to the touch-line, 10 yards from the place where it went into touch.
If the referee blows his whistle because the ball has been thrown out so as not to alight at right angles to the touch-line, the opposite side shall bring it out as in (b).

NOTE.—It is the duty of the referee when the ball is taken out of touch as in (b) to see that it is scrummaged 10 yards from the touch line.
“Forced into touch by an opponent” means “physically” forced. When a player is penalised for illegally throwing the ball out of touch, the penalty kick should be given 10 yards from the touch line.

Try at Goal.

13. When the side has scored a try, the ball shall be brought from the spot where the try was gained into the field of play in a line parallel to the touch-lines, such distance as the placer thinks proper, and there he shall place the ball for one of his side to try and kick a goal; this place-kick is governed by Law 10 as to charging, etc., the mark being taken as on the goal-line. It is the duty of the Referee to see that the ball is taken out straight.

NOTE.—Any player except the kicker may place, or after a charge has been disallowed, he or another of his side (other than the kicker) may replace the ball or alter the spot for a place kick. If a try has been scored and after a charge by the defending side has been disallowed, the kicker touches the ball when it is on the ground, the referee must order a “drop-out,” the illegal act of the kicker in so handling the ball making it an unsuccessful try within the meaning of Law 15.
This instruction also applies to a kick at goal from a free-kick, but in that case a scrummage should be ordered.

Unfair Play Allowing or Disallowing a Try.

The Referee shall award a try, if, in his opinion, one would undoubtedly have been obtained but for the unfair play or interference of the defending side. Or, he shall disallow a try, and adjudge a touch-down, if, in his opinion, a try would undoubtedly not have been gained but for unfair play or interference of the attacking side. In case of a try so allowed the kick at goal shall be taken at any point on a line parallel to the touch lines, and passing through the spot where the ball was when such unfair play or interference took place.

NOTE.—In case of any dispute relative to a Try, where it is possible an appeal may be made to the Board Referees are recommended to allow a kick at goal, so that if the Board afterwards allows the Try, the goal points may be added, if the kick was successful.

In the case of a kick for goal from a mark, penalty or try, if in the opinion of the Referee the ball is illegally stopped after the kick has been taken and he is of opinion that a goal would otherwise undoubtedly have been gained, he shall have power to award the goal.

Ball held in in-goal.

14. If the ball, when over the goal-line and in possession of a player, be fairly held by an opposing player before it is grounded, it shall be scrummaged five yards from the goal-line, opposite the spot where the ball was held.

Drop out.

15. After an unsuccessful try, or touch-down, or if the ball after crossing the goal-line go into touch-in-goal or touch or cross the dead-ball line, it shall be brought into play by means of a drop-out, when all the kicker's side must be behind the ball when kicked; in case any are in front, the Referee shall order a scrummage on the 25 yards line and equidistant from the touch-lines.

Knock-on. Throw forward.

16. In the case of a throw-forward or knock-on, the ball shall be brought back to the place where such infringement occurred and there be scrummaged, unless a fair-catch has been allowed, or the opposite side gain an advantage, or unless, in the opinion of the Referee, such throw-forward or knock-on is wilful, when he may award a free-kick to be taken at the spot where such infringement occurred. This shall not apply to a wilful throw-forward or knock-on into touch, which must be dealt with under Law 16a.

16a. If a Player shall wilfully pass, knock or throw the ball into touch, the opposite side may claim either a free-kick or scrummage. Such free-kick or scrummage is to be taken, at their option, either:—
(a) At any spot at right angles to the touch-line, 10 yards from the place where the ball went into touch, or
(b) At the spot where such pass, knock or throw occurred.
In the case of a free-kick the “spot” whether under (a) or (b) shall be taken as the mark. This Law shall not over-ride the power of the Referee to allow or disallow a try under Law 13.

Pass or Carry Back over own Goal line.

17. If a player shall wilfully kick, pass, knock, or carry the ball back across his goal-line and it there be made dead, the opposite side may claim that the ball shall be brought back and a scrummage formed at the spot whence it was kicked, passed, knocked or carried back. Under any other circumstances a player may touch the ball down in his own In-goal.

NOTE.—Heeling back over own goal-line shall be considered as wilfully kicking back. If, when a ball is passed back, the would-be receiver fumbles it, so that it goes over his own goal-line the Referee shall decide whether such fumble were intentional or not, and decide accordingly.

Hacking Tripping.

18. Hacking, hacking-over, or tripping-up are illegal. The Referee shall have full power to decide what part of a player's dress, including boots and projections thereon, buckles, rings, etc., are dangerous, and having once decided that any part is dangerous shall order such player to remove the same, and shall not allow him to take further part in the game until such be removed.
If studs are worn, they shall be circular, not more than 3/4 inch long measured from the sole of the boot, and not less than 1/2 inch diameter at base and 1/4 inch at the top, and shall be fastened with not less than three nails.

NOTE.—It is the duty of the referee to see that this Law is complied with by players.

In In-Goal not otherwise provided for.

19. In case of any law being otherwise infringed in In-Goal by the attacking side, a touch-down shall be awarded, but where such breach is committed by the defending side, a scrummage shall be awarded five yards from the goal-line, opposite to the spot where the breach occurred.

Other Irregularities not provided for.

20. If when a Law is broken or any irregularity of play occurs not otherwise provided for, and any advantage is gained therefrom by the opposite side, the Referee shall not blow his whistle but shall allow the game to proceed, but if no advantage is gained by such side, and if no other procedure is provided, the ball shall be taken back to the place where the breach of the Law or irregularity occurred and a scrummage formed there.


INTERNATIONAL RUGBY FOOTBALL BOARD
Circular Letter issued to Players and Referees, with a view to securing uniformity of Rulings, 1911.

Since the last circular letter was addressed by the Board to Players and Referees, the Laws have been revised and many additional decisions have been given on various points of law; the Board therefore consider it advisable to issue a further circular with the view of assisting Referees upon various points of law.

Introduction.

All grounds should be properly marked out, including the half way, 25 yards, touch, goal, and dead-ball lines (unless other boundaries form these latter). If it is necessary to use flags at the half-way and 25 yards lines, these should be set well back from the touch lines. Corner flags should be used, and should be at the junction of the touch and goal lines.
It is the duty of the visiting team to see that the ground complies with Law 1 as to size, and is properly marked, and the dead ball line is distinct, &c., and it is the duty of each side to see that their opponents do not play more than 15 men. If they fail to see to these points before the game begins, no appeal can afterwards be entertained in relation thereto, except in regard to the last mentioned point which can be objected to during the game, but such objection will not affect any score made prior thereto.

In-Goal.

As the goal-line is in-goal, a try or touch down may be obtained thereon.
If a player holding the ball in his own In-goal touches the referee, the ball is dead at the spot, and a drop-out must be taken; except in the case of a player having run back behind his own goal line, in which case the ball must be scrummaged at the spot from whence it was carried back.

Touch-in-Goal.

If the ball or a player holding it touch one of the corner posts or flags, prior to touching down, the ball must be considered as in touch-in-goal. A player may himself be in touch-in-goal and yet play the ball with his foot, if the ball be not in touch-in-goal; or he may, provided he is not carrying the ball, touch it down with his hands and score a try.

Goal.

A goal is scored if the ball has crossed the bar, although it may be blown back afterwards.

Try at Goal.

A kicker and a placer must be distinct persons, and the kicker may not under any circumstances touch the ball when on the ground, even though the charge has been disallowed.
In cases of tries, free kicks and fair catches, any player may place or kick the ball.

Tackle.

A new definition of tackle has been adopted.
When a player is tackled with the ball, it can only be brought into play with the foot.
If a player carrying the ball be thrown or knocked over (but not tackled) and the ball touches the ground, he may nevertheless get up with it and continue his run or pass it.

Scrummage.

The Referee may order the ball to be put into the scrummage from either side as he may choose.
A player shall be considered as wilfully preventing the ball being fairly put into a scrummage under Law 11 (l) if before the ball is fairly in the scrummage: —
(a) He moves either of his feet beyond the front line of his forwards.
(b) Follows the ball into the scrummage with either foot.

Try—Touch-Down.

When an attacking side in a scrummage pushes the defending side over the goal line and touches the ball down a try shall be allowed, but if the ball be touched down by the defending side, a touch-down shall be allowed.
In the case of the ball rolling over the goal-line and touching a spectator before a player of either side has had time to touch it down, the referee shall: —
(a) Award a touch-down if he considers the ball would have gone dead before any attacking player could have touched it, or that a defending player would have touched it first.
(b) Award a try if he thinks but for the interference a try would have been scored.
(c) If in doubt, give the point against the side responsible for the ground arrangements, and in doing so he shall regard all officials and spectators as offending players on the home side.

Try.

It is a try if a player passes or kicks the ball back behind his own goal-line and the ball is touched down by one of his opponents.
If a player touches the ball down behind his opponents’ goal-line and picks it up again he shall be allowed a try at the spot where it was first touched down.
A player who crosses the opponents’ goal-line with the ball in his possession, and before grounding it, touches the referee, shall be allowed a try at the spot.
If the ball not in possession of a player strikes the referee or touch judge when in In-goal, a try should be awarded to the attacking side if, in the referee’s opinion, a try would undoubtedly have been obtained but for the ball touching the referee or touch judge. The referee shall award a touch-down if he considers the ball would have gone dead or be touched down by a defending player before any attacking player could have touched it.

Knock-on.

A rebound is not a knock-on, and therefore no fair catch can be made therefrom, or a penalty given. This is important, as some referees appear to regard a rebound as a knock-on. If the ball is passed back, but after alighting on the ground is blown forward, the pass is good, provided the ball did not alight in front of the passer.

Free-Kick.

If a player kicks the ball with his knee, or any part below it, and an opponent makes a fair catch, a free kick should be awarded.

Fair Catch.

A fair catch can only be claimed by the catcher making his mark after he has caught the ball; the mark, however, must be made as soon after the ball is caught as possible; and in practice, referees might allow a claim when the mark was simultaneously made with the catching. A fair-catch can be made in a player’s own In-goal.

Kick-off, Kick-out.

The ball from a kick-off having reached 10 yards, and then having been blown back, shall be considered as in play; as also a ball having reached the 25 yards line from a drop-out and blown back. The limit of 10 yards means that distance parallel with the touch lines.
If a player goes beyond the 25 yards at drop-out, or if he punts, the referee must blow his whistle and order the player to take a new kick, which must be a drop within the 25 yards limit.
Referees should not allow players to approach within 10 yards of the half-way line at a kick-off.

Touch.

A player may be in Touch and yet play the ball with his foot if the ball be not in touch.
A player, provided he is not carrying the ball may be in touch and yet score a try, by touching the ball down with his hands.
The ball blown over the touch line and blown back shall be considered as in touch.
In rule 12 forced into touch means physically forced. When a player is penalised for illegally throwing the ball out of touch, the penalty kick should be given 10 yards from the touch line.

Off-Side.

A player may play in any position so long as he is on-side and does not obstruct his opponents. He may come up to a scrummage and attempt to hook the ball out with his foot, provided the other foot is behind the ball.
A player must be in the field of play when he puts his men on-side after kicking the ball when behind them, and whilst he is not debarred from starting running up in touch, he must get into the field of play as soon as possible. It must be observed that only the kicker can place the off-side players on-side.
A player when off-side can intercept a pass from an opposing player.

Placing Ball.

Any player except the kicker may place or, after a charge has been disallowed, he, or another of his side (other than the kicker), may replace the ball, or alter the spot for a place-kick.

Duties of Referee.

No power is given to a referee to whistle simply because a player is tackled with the ball, and this is one of the most important points to which the Board wish to direct the attention of players and referees, as the habit of whistling the moment a man is tackled spoils the game by slowing it down and taking away any advantage a side of quick followers-up would otherwise gain. When a player with the ball is tackled, a referee may only blow his whistle for one of the following cases: —
(1) Law 11 (b). When such player does not at once fairly put the ball down.
(2) Law 11 (c). When such player is on the ground and he does not at once fairly part with the ball, and either get up or roll away from the ball.
If a player breaks either of the above sub-sections, or interferes with the ball in any way while he is lying on the ground, the penalty of a free-kick should be enforced against him.
(3) Law 11 (d). When a player of the opposite side prevents such player either putting the ball down or getting up. The penalty of a free-kick should be enforced against him.
(4) When the referee considers that the continuation of play would be dangerous.
The last point must be left entirely to the referee, but the Board wish to point out that if the tackled player played the Laws in the spirit in which they are written, and at once fairly parted with the ball, very few cases of danger would arise; but by holding on a short time danger may arise. In such a case the referee should blow and award the penalty of a free-kick instead of simply ordering a scrummage on the plea of danger, as by so doing he deprives one side of an advantage, and does not inflict a penalty on the other, both of which are deserved.
It is to be observed that Law 3 (b) covers the case of wilful obstruction or interference. Referees must deal very sharply with all cases of this nature, as this has been a growing practice through players deciding to take the risk of a penalty to gain or save a try by unfair play. This practice is so contrary to the spirit of the game that the Board have decided to deal with it upon the same footing as rough or foul play or misconduct.
Attention is directed to Law 3, Section g, of duties of referee—“When he notices any irregularity of play whereby the side committing such gain an advantage.
This is a most important law, and at present is not generally observed by referees as it should be. There is unfortunately a pronounced tendency on their part to whistle immediately a law has been infringed without waiting to see who gains the advantage of the infringement. He should not whistle when the non-offending side gains an advantage.
The Board desire to urge referees to pay great regard to this law in future, and also to law 20.
The Board also wish to emphasise that the game should be played in the spirit in which the laws are written, and particularly that one side shall not gain an advantage through its own faults; thus the Board has ruled that a player who has made a mis-kick when the opposite side are charging, and the ball hits one of his own off-side players, cannot claim a scrummage for unintentional off-side, provided the charging side gain an advantage, even though this be a try.
If a player be hurt the referee should not blow his whistle till the ball be dead, unless such hurt player is in a position that the continuance of play might entail further danger, and in no case should he permit a stoppage of play for more than three minutes.
At half-time the interval is not to exceed five minutes.
It is the duty of the referee when the ball is taken out of touch under Law 12 (b) to see that it is scrummaged 10 yards from the touch line.
The attention of referees is directed to the penalties at Law 8, sections 1 and 2.
It is important that referees should more strictly enforce these penalties, and it should be observed that a referee should award a free kick if he thinks a fair-catch would have been made had not an off-side player, through his proximity and not retiring beyond the 10 yards limit, have rendered such catch more difficult. For instance, a player waiting to receive the ball fails to catch it properly and it drops from his hands to the ground. An opponent who is off-side, and who is standing or has approached within 10 yards of him, immediately pounces upon him and prevents him recovering and playing the ball. A free-kick should be awarded as it was the duty of the off-side player to have retired beyond the 10 yards limit.
Referees too often give offending players the benefit of unintentional off-side instead of inflicting the free-kick penalty.
If a try has been scored and after a charge by the defending side has been disallowed, the kicker touches the ball when it is on the ground, the referee must order a drop-out, the illegal act of the kicker in so handling the ball making it an unsuccessful try within the meaning of Law 15.
This instruction also applies to a kick at goal from a free-kick, but in that case a scrummage should be ordered.
Heeling-back over own goal line shall be considered as wilfully kicking back. If when a ball is passed back, the would-be receiver fumbles it so that it goes over his own goal-line, the referee shall decide whether such fumble was intentional or not, and decide accordingly.
A referee, once he has given his decision, cannot alter it, and his decision alone is final; he may, however, consult the touch judges in case of touch and touch-in-goal play, and when they are taking posts at kicks at goal, but the fact that it is now the duty of touch judges to stand at the goal posts when kicks at goal are being taken does not affect the right of the referee to decide for himself whether a goal has been kicked or not, in the same way as he may decide whether the ball has gone into touch or not, he being the sole judge of matters of fact. Under all circumstances the referee’s whistle must stop the game, even if blown inadvertently; and the referee’s decision as to time must be final, even if he has kept it inaccurately. On no account must a referee consult with any outsider, except in the case of a failure of his watch, when he should in the first instance consult the touch judges.
In case of any dispute relative to a try, where it is possible an appeal may be made to this Board, referees are recommended to allow a kick at goal, so that if this Board afterwards allow the try, the goal points may be added if the kick is successful.
Once a referee has ordered a player off the ground, he cannot allow him again to take part in the game, and must report him.
The Board have also laid down their opinion that where a referee warns a player in an International Match, he should in addition report such player to his Union.

Penalties.

Special attention is directed to Law 11, Section (a) which makes it equally illegal to lift the ball in a scrummage with the feet or legs as with the hands.
(g) Wilfully hacking, or tripping up (although a penalty of a free-kick is now given, the referee should still caution a player, or even order him off the ground, if such hacking or tripping-up constituted rough play).
(j) Shouting on-side when his players are not yet on-side. This is intended to apply chiefly to a back having kicked the ball and while following up he or others of his side shout “on-side” when he has not yet placed his side on-side—a most unfair practice.
(h) This is intended to prevent any player, either back or forward unfairly gaining an advantage by kicking or otherwise placing the ball among the players of his own side, and should be strictly enforced.
(k) This prohibits forwards as well as three-quarters and half-backs standing in front of the ball, so as to mark the opposing backs, and should be strictly enforced. Whilst wishful to emphasise this, the Board would also point out that it is not intended thereby to penalise a half-back who unintentionally over-runs the ball in a scrummage.
(m) If any player or team wilfully and systematically break any law or laws for which the penalty is only a scrummage, or cause unnecessary delay.

Touch Judges.

It is the duty of the touch judge, subject to the decision of the referee, to say to which side he considers the ball in touch belongs.

Charging.

In cases of players waiting to charge when a kick after a try, fair catch, or free-kick is about to be taken, they must remain behind the goal line or behind the mark with both feet, and any standing over the goal line or over the mark with one foot shall be considered to have charged and the referee shall blow his whistle and award no-charge; the referee shall also be particular that any side waiting behind a mark do not gradually come up beyond the mark, which act shall also be considered as a charge. When a player is placing the ball, he shall not wilfully do anything which may lead his opponents to think he has put the ball down when he has not; if he does, the charge shall not be disallowed. Even when a charge has been disallowed, the would-be chargers may, provided they remain behind the mark, jump up and attempt to stop or touch the ball; if they so touch it no goal can be scored.
In cases when two opposing players are running for the ball, a player overtaking another may not shove the overtaken player from behind. If he does, it is illegal and should be penalised by a free-kick.
This would not, however, apply when the overtaken player has reached the ball, and was stooping down to pick it up.
A player running at the ball may charge an opponent also running at the ball, but such charge may only be shoulder to shoulder.

No Charge.

If a referee whistles to disallow a charge just as a kicker takes his kick, such kicker shall have the option of another kick, that is, if he has kicked a goal he can allow it to stand; if he has not, he can take a second kick.

Loose-Head.

The Board have expressed the opinion that this practice can be dealt with by the referee under the present Laws of the Game dealing with obstruction.