26
Index to Laws of the Game.
Refer to Law—
Advantage	10 (A), 10 (m), 14 (b), 21, 22, 23, 24, 27.
Appeals Accidental Off-side Ball, Dimensions of Held in In-goal Illegally touched In touch In Touch-in-Goal Lying on Rebounding Taking over own Goal line Touching Referee, Touch Judge or Spectator Charging an opponent Charging at kicks Charge disallowed Choice of ends Commencement of match Corner post Crossbar Danger Dead Ball Dead ball line Delays Dress Drop Kick Drop out Duration of Game Enclosure, Persons entitled thereon Players leaving Fair catch	10. 17. 4. 31. 15 (Z), 25. 27. 29. 20. 2, 14. 32. 2, 10 (d), 30. 19, 34. 21 (e), 22 (b), 23, 25. 23, 25. 9. 9, 13. 1, 2, 29. 1. 10 (c), 15 (d). 2, 10 (e). 1. 8, 10, 15 (i). 5, 10. 2, 22, 23. 2, 22. 8. 10. 10. 2, 10 (a), 14 (a), 23.
27
	Refer to Law—
Failure of Referee’s watch Flags Field of play Foul play Free Kick Goal Goal kick in case of dispute Goal line Goal posts Grounding ball Hacking Half-time Half-way line Holding opponent Infringements in In-Goal In-Goal In-Goal play Interval Irregularities not provided for Kick Kick-off Knock-on Lying on Ball Line out Mark Misconduct Mode of play Method of scoring No-side Number of players Objections Obstruction Off-side On-side	10. 1, 11, 29. 1, 2, 3. 10 (j), 34. 2, 23. 2, 10 (/), 23, 24, 25. 10. 1, 3. 1. 2, 16, 26. 34. 8, 10 (e). 1, 21 (d). 19, 34 (a). 17 (d), 33. 1, 3. 2, 26, 30, 31, 32, 33. 8. 36. . 2, 13. 2, 9, 13, 21. 2, 14. 20. 19 (d). 2. 10 (;), 34. 13. 7. 2, 10 (e). 12. 3, 12. 19, 34 (a). 2, 17. 2, 13, 18.
28
Refer to Law—
Options	17, 21(d), 24 («), 25 (it), 28
Passive	24 (c).
Penalty	io (*)•
Kick	2, 24.
Try	26.
Persistent infringement of the Laws	15, 34 (c).
Place Kick	2, 21(a), 23(d), 24(a),
Picking up the ball	13, 16. [25.
Plan of field	1.
Playing enclosure	10, 34.
Players, Dress	5, 10.
Hurt	10 (d), 23.
Leaving playing enclosure	10.
Number of	12.
Touching Referee	10 (d), 30.
Reported to Union	34.
Punt	2.
Pushing an opponent	19 (d), 19 (d).
Rebound	2, 14.
Referee, Appointment	6, 10.
Functions of	10.
Scoring, Method of	7.
Scrummage	2, 15.
Entering from opponents’ side	17(a).
Forcing way through	19 (e).
Pushed over Goal bne	26 (d).
Right of putting ball into	15.
Start of match	9, 13. .
Stoppage of match	10.
Stoppage of play	15 (»•
S tri Icing an opponent	34.
Studs	5.
Tackled player	13.
29
Refer to Law—
Tackle
Ten yards line
Throw forward
Time
Timekeeper
Touch
Throwing in from
Throwing into
Touch line
Touch-in-goal
Touch Judges, appointment of
Functions of
Touch down
Tripping
Try
Twenty-five yards line
Upright
Union, Appeals to
Waste of time
Whistle
Wilful Charging an opponent
Hacking, tripping or striking
Holding
Infringements
Kick, pass, knock or carry over
own goal line
Knock on
Misleading Opponent
Throw forward
Throw into touch
Waste of time
2, 10 (I), 16.
1, 21 (&).
2, 13, 14.
8.
10.
1, 2, 3, 27.
11, 14, 19, 27, 35.
28.
1, 27 (a), 27 (&).
1,2, 3, 10 (g), 11,29 \
6.
10, 11.
2, 26 (d), 30, 33.
34.
2, 7, 26, 30.
1, 22 (&), 22 (c).
1.
10, 34.
15 (i), 35.
10.
19.
34.
19 (c), 19 (d), 34.
35.
32.
14 (c).
25.
14 (c).
28.
15 (i)
I HE PLAN, including all words and figures thereon, is to take effect as
part of these Laws.
1 he TERMS appearing on the Plan are to bear their apparent meaning,
and to be deemed part of the definitions as if separately included.
LAW 1. Plan of the Field
Notes: ■ Indicates Post with Flag. .
Length ami breadth of Field to be as near to dimensions indicated as possible.
_______ _ These broken lines indicate 10 yards distance from the half-way line and 5 yards
distance from the Touch Lines.
Goul dimensions.— 10 feet is taken from the ground to the top edge of the Crossbar and
18 ft. Gin. from inside to inside of the goal posts.
32
Part I.—Definitions, and Glossary
of Terms.
LAW 2. The following terms have the meaning
assigned to them, that is to say *. —
“ Beyond ” or “ Behind ” or “ In
front ” of any position indicated implies
“ with both feet ” except when unsuited to
the context.
Dead means that the ball is for the time
being out of play, an event that occurs when
the Referee’s whistle is blown, or as under :—
After a tackle, after a touch-down, after a
try has been scored, after an unsuccessful
attempt to convert a try or after a goal has
been kicked.
When, not being in the possession of a
player, the ball touches a corner post, or
touches or crosses a touch line, touch-in-goal
line or dead ball line.
When the ball in a player’s possession
or a player carrying it touches a corner post,
or touches a touch line, touch-in-goal line,
dead ball line, or the ground beyond them.
When the ball or a player carrying it
touches the Referee.
33
P air-catch is a catch made direct from a
kick, knock-on or throw forward by one of
the opposing team. The catcher must claim
the same by making a mark with his heel
simultaneously with making the catch. A
fair catch can be made in a player’s own
In-goal.
Nolo:—/I /air-catch cannot be made other-
wise than direct from the hand, arm, or leg
from the knee to the toe inclusive.
Field-of-play. The field-of-play is the
space as shewn on (he plan, bounded by, but
not including, the Goal Lines and Touch
Lines.
Goal. A goal is obtained by kicking the
ball over the opponents’ cross bar from the
field-of-play, by any place kick or drop kick
except a kick-off or drop-out, without touch-
ing the ground or any player of either team.
A goal is scored if the ball has crossed the
bar, even though it may have been blown
back afterwards, and whether it has touched
the cross bar or either goal post or not.
Grounding the ball. Grounding the ball
is the act of a player touching the ball down
on the ground with his hand or hands.
Note:—Picking up the ball from the ground
is not ” grounding ” it.
34
Kicks.
Kick. A kick is made by propelling the
ball with the foot, or leg from the knee to
the toe inclusive.
Drop Kick. A drop kick is made by a
player in possession of the ball letting it fall
from the hand or hands to the ground and
kicking it at the first rebound as it rises.
Place Kick. A place kick is made by
kicking the ball after it has been placed on
the ground for that purpose.
Punt. A punt is made by a player in
possession of the ball letting it fall from
the hand or hands and kicking it before it
touches the ground.
Drop-out. A drop-out is a drop kick
taken by the defending team after a
touch-down or after the ball has been in
touch-in-goal or has touched or crossed the
dead ball line.
Free Kick. A free kick is a kick allowed
for a fair-catch. It may be taken by a
place kick, drop kick or punt.
35
Kick-off. Kick-off is a place kick from
the centre of the half-way line taken :—
(a)	at the beginning of a match,
(b)	on the resumption of play after
the half-time interval,
(c)	after a goal has been kicked,
or a drop kick from the centre of the
half-way line after an unconverted try.
Penalty Kick. A penalty kick is a kick
awarded to the non-offendi .g team by
reason of an infringement of the Laws by "
their opponents. It may be taken by a
place kick, drop kick or punt.
Knock-on, Throw forward, Rebound:—
Knock-on. A Knock-on occurs when
the ball, after striking the hand or arm of
a player, travels in the direction of his
opponents’ dead ball line.
Throw-forward. A throw-forward occurs
when the ball is propelled by the hand or
arm of a player in the direction of his
opponents’ dead ball line.
Rebound. A rebound occurs when the
ball, after striking any part of a player
except his hand, arm, or leg from the knee
to the toe inclusive, travels in the direction
of his opponents’ dead ball line.
.36
Mark. The mark is the place at which a
free kick or penalty kick is awarded.
No-side. The end of a match.
Off-side denotes that a player is in such a
position that he is out of the Game, and that
it is illegal for him to play the ball or interfere
with an opponent.
On-side denotes that a player is in the
Game and not off-side.
Scrummage. A scrummage, which can
only take place in the field of play, is formed
by one or more players from each team closing
round the ball when it is on the ground, or
by players of each team closing up in readi-
ness to allow the ball to be put on the ground
between them in accordance with Law 15.
Tackle. A tackle occurs when the holder
of the ball in the field of play is held by one
or more players of the opposing team so that
while he is so held there is a moment when
he cannot pass or play the ball.
Touch-down. A touch-down is obtained
by the act of a defending player grounding
the ball in his own In-goal.
Try. A try is obtained by the act of an
attacking player first grounding the ball in
his opponents’ In-goal.
37
Part II—Preliminary.
LAW 3. Ground.
.All lines shewn on the plan must be
suitably marked out. The touch lines are in
touch. The goal lines are in In-goal. The
Touch-in-goal lines and corner posts are in
Touch-in-goal. The goal posts arc to be
erected in the goal lines.
Any objection by the visiting team arising
in connection with the subject matter of '
Laws 1 and 3 must be made before the first
kick-off.
LAW 4. Ball.
The ball shall be oval in shape and of the
following description, as far as possible :—
Length in line	11	to	lljins.
Circumference (end on) ...	30	to	31ins.
,, (in width) ..	24	to	254ins,
Weight	134	to	15ozs.
LAW 5. Players* Dress.
A player may not wear dangerous projec-
tions—buckles, rings, etc. Any studs on his
38
boots must be of leather, circular, fastened
v by at least three nails and of the following
dimensions, namely :—
Maximum length (measured from
sole) ... _______________ f in-
Minimum diameter at base Jin.
,, ,, at top ... Jin.
LAW 6. Appointment of Referee and Touch
Judges.
In all matches a Referee and two Touch
Judges must be appointed or mutually agreed
upon.
LAW 7. Method of Scoring.
A try
A goal from a try (in which case
the try shall not count)
A goal from a free kick or penalty
kick
A dropped goal otherwise obtained
3 points
5
3
4
LAW 8. Time, etc.
In International matches two periods of
40 minutes each shall be played; in other
matches the duration of play shall be agreed
upon by the respective teams, or if not
39
agreed upon shall be fixed by the Referee.
Play shall be divided into halves. At
half-time there shall be an interval of not
more than five minutes. A period not <
exceeding three minutes shall be allowed for
any other permitted delay. At half-time the
teams shall change over.
LAW 9. Before a match begins the captains
shall toss for the right to kick-off or the
choice of ends.
LAW 10. Functions of Referee.
The Referee is sole timekeeper and judge of
fact.
He is sole judge of Law, subject to a right
of appeal to this Union.
He is not entitled to contract out of the
Laws of the Game by agreeing with both
teams to vary or not to recognise any Law.
He must not give any instructions or
directions to either team prior to a match.
He may, before arriving at a decision, con-
sult the Touch Judges or either of them on-
any point of fact material to their functions,
or with regard to time in the case of failure
of his watch.
40
He may not consult with any one else
except with regard to time, and then only if
the information supplied by the Touch Judges
is insufficient.
He may allow extra time for delays.
He has power to stop a match before
time has expired if, in his opinion, the full
time cannot be played.
In the case of his being unable to officiate
during the whole period of a match, he shall
have power to appoint a substitute to take
his place, failing an agreement by the
captains of the respective teams.
He cannot alter any decision when given.
It rests with him to impose penalties for
irregularities, and to give all necessary
directions within the Laws. He has full
power to decide if any parts of a player’s
dress, including boots and projections there-
on, are dangerous, and in that case must
order such player to remove the same and not
allow him to take further part in the match
until after such removal.
He must not allow anyone but the players
on to the playing enclosure during a match,
except with his permission.
41
He must not allow any player to leave the
playing enclosure without his permission,
which should only be granted in special
circumstances.
Note:—Any player who, through injury
or any other cause, has to retire during a.
match, shall not resume playing in that \
match until he has obtained the permission
of the Referee.
The Referee must carry a whistle. The
whistle when blown stops the match for the
time being. The Referee shall blow it only
to indicate :—
(a)	A Fair-catch (even though he has
blown for a knock-on or throw-forward).
(&) Player hurt (as soon afterwards as
the ball has become dead and subject to
resumption of play in not more than three
minutes).
(c)	Danger, when continuation of play
would be dangerous.
Note:—If the tackled player played in
the proper spirit and at once fairly released
the ball, very few cases of danger could
arise, but. by holding on for a short time
danger may arise. In such cases a Referee
should award a penalty.
42
(d)	That the ball or player carrying it
has touched him.
(e)	Half-time or No-side, as soon as the
ball has become dead, except as the result
of a try, a penalty kick, or a free kick,
when in each case he shall allow play to
proceed until the ball next becomes dead.
(/) A goal.
(g)	That the ball has gone into Touch-
in-goal.
(h)	A breach of Law, or irregularity of
play, unless the non-offending team gain
an advantage.
(i)	That he is awarding a penalty.
(;) Foul play or misconduct.
(k) That a stoppage is necessary for any
other reason.
The Referee shall not blow his whistle :—
(Z) Simply because a player is tackled.
(m) When an irregularity occurs from
which the non-offending team gains an
advantage. (Subject to Laws 21, 22, 23,
24 and 27).
43
Note:—A Referee should see that an
advantage (generally meaning “ territorial
advantage is actually gained by the
non-offending team, failing which, he
should whistle for the offence. An
opportunity of gaining an advantage is
not sufficient.
■ In case of any dispute relative to a try or
a kick at goal where it is possible that an
appeal may be made to this Union, the
Referee shall allow the kick at goal, so that
if the kick is successful, and the Union
supports the appeal, the goal points may be
added.
LAW 11. Functions of Touch Judges.
Each Touch Judge must carry a flag and
remain in touch, one on each side of the
ground, except when a kick at goal from a
try, free kick or penalty kick is being taken,
when both must assist the Referee by stand-
ing, one at or behind each of the goal posts
of the defending team and signalling a goal
by raising his flag. The Touch Judge must
hold up his flag when and where the ball or
the player carrying it has gone into touch,
and indicate which team is entitled to bring
the ball into play.
44
He must lower his Hag immediately the
ball has been thrown in by a player of the
team entitled to do so, but if the ball is
otherwise thrown in, or if the player throw-
ing in the ball put either foot into the field
of play, he must keep his flag raised, and the
ball shall be thrown in again.
He must signal when the ball, or the
player carrying it, has gone into Touch-in-
goal.
Any decision of a Touch Judge may be
over-ruled by the Referee.
A Touch Judge is under the control of the
Referee, who has power to deal with him as
a player under Law 34 (b).
Part III.—The play in detail.
LAW 12. Number of Players. A match shall
be played by not more than fifteen players in
each team. Any objection by either team in
connection with this Law may be made at any
time, but it shall not affect any score pre-
viously obtained.
LAW 13. Mode of play. A match is started
by a kick-off, after which any player who is
on-side may, at any time, kick, pick up, or
45
run with the ball, or mcklc^an^opponent
holding the ball, except^naCif"may not be
the ground,*yil5e picked up ornandTccl :—
(a)	In a scrummage.
(b)	When it has been released after a
tackle.
(c)	When it is on the ground after a
player has been tackled.
'I'he ball may be passed or knocked from
one player to another provided it is not
passed, knocked or thrown forward.
LAW 14. Knock-on or throw-forward. A
throw-in from touch is not a throw-forward ;
a rebound is not a knock-on.
If the ball is passed back, but, after alight-
ing on the ground behind the place from
which it was passed, it bounce forward, the
pass is in order.
In the case of a throw-forward or a
knock-on the ball shall be brought back to
the place of infringement and a scrummage
formed there, unless :—
(a) A Fair-catch has been allowed.
(&) the opposing team gain an advantage.
46
(c) in the opinion of the Referee such
throw-forward or knock-on is wilful, when
he shall award a penalty kick at the place
of infringement.
This Law does not apply to a wilful knock-
on or throw-forward into touch (Law 28).
LAW 15. Scrummage
(a)	In all cases when the Referee orders
a scrummage, or one team exercises its right
to claim a scrummage, the Referee shall
award to the team which is not responsible
for the stoppage of play the right of putting
the ball into the scrummage. In case of
doubt, the Referee shall award such right to
the team which is territorially on the defensive.
(b)	In all cases when a scrummage is
ordered between the 25 yards lines for an
infringement or other cause within 10 yards
of the touch line, such scrummage shall take
place 10 yard§ from the touch line on a line
through the place where the incident occurred
and parallel to the goal lines.
7 I (c) Ih all cases when a scrummage is
I ordered or taken it is illegal for more than
three players of each team to form the front
row of a scrummage before the ball is put in.
4:7
Referees shall not inflict a penalty for this
breach of the Law unless such breach is s
wilful or persistent, in which case it must be
dealt with under Law 34 (c).
(d)	In all cases when a scrummage is
ordered or taken, no player shall, after the
scrummage has been formed, wilfully add
himself to the front row of the scrummage
so as to form more than three in that row,
until the ball has been put in.
Note:—Referees should stop the dangerous
practice of players forming down some ,
distance apart and. rushing together, and deal
with it under Law 3 J/. (a) (5).
(e)	The Referee may order the ball to be
put into the scrummage on either side.
(/) The player putting the ball into a
scrummage shall stand about three feet from
the scrummage and with both hands below
the knee shall gently propel the ball along a V
line midway between and parallel to the lines
of feet of the opposing front row forwards.
(g) The ball is not fairly in a scrum- ’Z
mage:—
(1) Until it has been put in straight. !
48
/ (2) Until it has touched the ground
between the opposing players.
/ (3) Until it has passed one foot of
a front row player of each
team.
(4) If it pass straight through the
scrummage.
(5) If it enter the scrummage and
I is kicked out at either side
between the lines of feet of
the opposing front row for-
wards.
(//) No player shall put the ball unfairly
into a scrummage, or the ball having come
out, return it by hand or foot into a
scrummage.
(?) The ball shall be put into a scrummage
without delay, in accordance with (f) and
(?)•
Note:—Any delay in -putting the ball into
a scrummage caused by a player with the
ball waiting for any of his team to join the
scrummage must be treated as wilful waste
of
/ V7 /$) f
49
(?) No player shall prevent the ball from
getting fairly into a scrummage.
(k)	No foot of the first three feet of the
front row forwards of each team, on the side
on which the ball is being put in, shall be
raised or advanced beyond the line of feet of
the front row forwards until the ball has
passed that foot.
Other feel may be raised or advanced. as
soon as the ball is fairly in the scrummage.
(I)	Except as provided for in Law 26 (Z?),
no player shall handle the ball in a
scrummage or pick up the ball in a
scrummage by hands or legs, or intentionally s
fall or kneel in a scrummage.
(m) • No player lying on the ground shall
interfere with the ball in any way while it is
in a scrummage.
Penalty:—In the event of the infringement
of any one of (<Z), (/), (/i), (/), (;), (/?), (Z), or .
(m), a penalty kick shall be awarded at that
place.
Note:—The Referee must insist on this
Law being strictly enforced; persistent
infringement must be dealt with under Law
(4
50
LAW 16. Tackle.
(a)	After a tackle the ball must be brought
into play with a foot.
(b)	When a player is tackled but not
brought to the ground, he must immediately
release the ball so that it falls to the ground
between himself and his opponents’ goal
line.
(c)	The tackled player, if lying on the
ground, must immediately release the ball,
roll away from it, and get up before playing
it with his foot.
(d)	No player shall prevent a tackled
player from releasing the ball, or getting up
after he has released it.
(e)	No player shall pick up the ball, after
Y a tackled player has released it, or when it
is on the ground after a player has been
tackled, until it has been played with a foot.
(/) No player lying on the ground after a
tackle shall interfere with the ball in any way
until it has been played with a foot.
Penally:—Penalty kick awarded at the
place of infringement.
51
If a player carrying the ball is thrown or
knocked over, but not tackled, he may
nevertheless pass the ball or get up and
continue his run, even though the ball has
touched the ground.
Note:—If a player carrying the ball is
grasped and brought to the ground by an
opponent, but not sufficiently held to prevent
him passing the ball, he may do so even
though the ball has touched the ground.
If while being so held- he can ground the
ball in his opponents’ In-goal, he may do so
and score a try, even though the ball has
touched the ground in the field of play.
If he is not sufficiently held, to prevent him
sliding into his opponents’ In-goal with the
ball in his possession and- there grounding it,
he shall be awarded a try.
If, however, while so held, he comes to
rest in the field of play with the ball beneath
his body, he shall be considered as tackled.
LAW 17. Off-side. A player is off-side—
(a)	If he enter a scrummage from his
opponents’ side.
52
(b)	If while the ball is in a scrummage
he, not being in the scrummage, remain
with either foot in front of the ball.
(c)	If when the ball is thrown in from
touch he stand in front of a line at right
angles to the touch line from the place
whence the ball is thrown.
Penalty:—Penalty kick awarded at the
place of infringement.
Note:—This law 'merely applies to the case
of a player who is participating in the line-
out. It is not intended that a player before
throwing in the ball from touch should be
obliged to wait until the players of his own
team have returned to or behind the line-out.
(d)	If, in his own In-goal, he is in front of
one of his own team who is taking a free
kick or penalty kick from behind the goal
line. Otherwise a player cannot be off-side
in his own In-goal.
Penalty:—Scrummage five yards from the
goal line opposite the mark.
(e)	If the ball has been kicked or touched
or is being carried by one of his own team
behind him.
53
z'
No ofFyside player shall pla^ the ball or
in any way obstruct an /opponent, or
approach 'or wilfully remain'within 10 yards
of an opponent waiting for the ball.
Penalty:—Penalty kick awarded at the
place of infringement, or scrummage where
the ball was last played by the offending
team, at the option of the other team.
No player shall shout “ all on side ” or
words to that effect when any member of
his team is off-side.
Penalty:—Penalty kick awarded at the
place of infringement or scrummage where
the ball was last played by the offending
team, at the option of the other team.
If the ball or a player carrying it touch a
player who is accidentally off-side, the
Referee shall order a scrummage at the place
where such off-side occurred.
LAW 18. On-side. An “ off-side ” player be-
comes “ on-side ”—
(a)	When an opponent carrying the ball
has run five yards.
(5) When the ball has been kicked by an
opponent.
54
(c) When an opponent has intentionally
touched the ball, provided such opponent
does not catch or gather it.
(d) When one of his own team has run in
, front of him either carrying the ball or after
having kicked the ball when behind him.
Such kicker must be in the field-of-play to
put the off-side player on-side, though he is
not debarred from previously following up
in touch.
LAW 19. Charging and Obstruction.
(a)	No player running for the ball shall
charge an opponent also running for the ball,
except shoulder to shoulder. A player who
is not running for the ball must not charge
or obstruct an opponent not holding the ball.
(b)	A player overtaking an opponent also
running for the ball must not push him
from behind, unless he is stooping to pick up
the ball.
(c)	No player shall hold an opponent who
is not carrying the ball.
Note:—Pulling any part of the clothing
of an opponent should be dealt with as hold-
ing under this Law and under Law 3%. (a) (£).
55
(d)	No player shall charge, push, or hold
an opponent at the line-out on the ball being
thrown in from touch.
(e)	No player with the ball in his posses-
sion after it has come out from a scrummage
shall attempt to force his way through his
own forwards.
Penalty:—Penalty kick awarded at the
place of infringement.
(/) A player not himself running for the
ball must not wilfully charge or obstruct an
opponent who has just kicked the ball.
Penalty:—The opposing team shall be
awarded at their option a penalty kick at
the place of infringement, or at the place
where the ball alights. In the event of the
ball alighting in touch the mark shall be at a
place ten yards from the touch line on a line
parallel to the goal lines through the place
where it crossed the touch line; or in the
event of the ball alighting in In-goal the mark
shall be at a place ten yards from the goal
line on a line parallel to the touch lines
through the place where it crossed the goal
line.
56
LAW 20. Lying on the ball. A player lying
on the ground with the ball in his possession
must immediately get up or roll away from
the ball.
Penalty:—Penalty kick awarded at the
place of infringement.
LAW 21. Kick-off.
(a)	A place kick, or after an unconverted
try a drop kick, must be taken; otherwise
the ball shall be kicked off again.
(b)	The ball must reach the 10 yards line,
unless first played by an opponent,' otherwise
it shall be kicked off again or a scrummage
formed at the centre, at the opponents’
option. If it reach the 10 yards line and is
then blown back, play shall continue.
(c)	The kicker’s team must all be behind
the ball; otherwise a scrummage shall be
formed at the centre.
(rZ) The opposing team must not stand
within ten yards of the half-way line;
otherwise the ball shall be kicked off again.
(e) lhe opposing team must not charge
until the ball has been kicked ; otherwise the
ball shall be kicked off again.
57
(/) If the ball pitch in touch, the opposing
team may accept the kick, have the ball
kicked off again, or have a scrummage
formed at the centre.
Law 10 (???) as to advantage does not applv
in the event of any of the foregoing not
being complied with.
LAW 22. Drop-out.
(a) A drop kick must be taken from within
the 25 yards line; otherwise the ball shall be '• \
dropped out again.
(b)	The opposing team must not charge
over the 25 yards line; otherwise the ball
shall be dropped out again.
(c)	The ball must reach the 25 yards line;
otherwise the opposing team may have it
dropped out again or have a scrummage
formed at the centre of the 25 yards line.
If it reach the 25 yards line and is then blown
back, play shall continue.
(rf) If the ball pitch in touch, the opposing
team may accept the kick, have the ball
dropped out again, or have a scrummage
formed at the centre of the 25 yards line.
58
(e) All the kicker’s team must be behind
the ball when kicked; otherwise the Referee
shall order a scrummage at the centre of the
25 yards line.
Law 10 (m) as to advantage does not apply
in the event of any of the foregoing not
being complied with.
LAW 23. Free Kick.
(a)	A free kick must be taken at or behind
the mark, on a line through the mark parallel
to the touch lines; the kick must be taken
by the player making the Fair-catch and the
ball must reach a line through the mark
parallel to the goal lines, unless first played
by an opponent.
(6) In the case of a place kick, the ball
must not be handled by the kicker after it
has been placed on the ground.
(c)	In every case the kicker’s team, other
than the placer for a place kick, must
be behind the ball when the kick is taken,
and may follow up. The opposing team may
come up to, but not beyond, a line through
the mark parallel to the goal lines, and may
charge subject to the following conditions :—
59
(1) In the case of a place kick, as soon
as the ball has been placed on the ground.
(2) In the case of a drop kick or punt,
as soon as the kicker begins his run or
offers to kick, provided that if he then
draws back with the ball still in his hands,
they retire to the line of the mark.
Any gradual creeping up beyond the mark
shall be considered as a charge.
Penalty:—
(i) For infringements by the kicker’s
team—a scrummage at the mark. (Subject
to Law 17 (d) ).
(it) For infringements by the opposing
team—charge disallowed ; if the kick has
been taken, the kicker shall be allowed the
option of another kick under the original
conditions without the charge.
If the kick is taken from behind a goal
line the ball must cross that line, unless first
played by an opponent; otherwise the kick
must be retaken.
Law 10 (m) as to advantage docs not apply
in the event of any of the foregoing not
being complied with.
Note:—Tf a player who has made a fair
catch, is injured in so doing and is unable to
60
lake the kick within three minutes, the kick
\ is void, and a scrummage shall be formed at
the mark.
LAW 24. Penalty Kick.
(a) A penalty kick must be taken at or
behind the mark, on a line through the mark
parallel to the touch lines, and the ball must
reach a line through the mark parallel to
the goal lines unless first played by an
opponent. The kick may be taken by any
player of the team, and for a place kick the
kicker may place the ball.
Note:—If the infringement is in In-goal,
a. goal may be scored whether the ball reached
the line through the mark parallel to the goal
lines or not.
(b)	In every case the kicker’s team, other
than the placer for a place kick, must be
behind the ball when the kick is taken and
may follow up.
(c)	All players of the opposing team must
remain passive on or behind a line through
the mark parallel to the goal lines, until the
kick has been taken.
61
Players who are standing at or near the
mark must not attempt to stop the ball in
its flight.
Note:—“ Passive ” means that all players
must remain standing' with their hands by
their sides and must not in any way attempt
Io pul the kicker off his kick.
Penalty:—
(/) For infringements by the kicker’s
team—a scrummage at the mark. (Subject
to Law 17 (d) ).
(n) For infringements by the opposing
team—if the kick has been taken, the
kicker shall have the option of another
kick under the original conditions.
If the kick is taken from behind a goal
line the ball must cross that line, unless first
played by an opponent; otherwise the kick
must be retaken.
Law 10 (m) as to advantage does not apply
in the event of any of the foregoing not
being complied with.
A scrummage may be taken at the mark
by the non-offending team in lieu of a
penalty kick.
62
LAW 25. Place Kick at Goal after a try.
(a)	The ball must be brought into the
field-of-play, and be placed on the ground
on a line parallel to the touch lines through
the place where the try was obtained. Any
player of the team may take the kick, but
the ball must not be handled by the kicker
after it has been placed on the ground.
(b)	All the kicker’s team, other than the
placer, must be behind the ball when kicked.
(c)	1'he opposing team must be behind the
goal line until the ball has been placed on the
ground for the kick, when they may charge
or jump with a view to touching the ball.
Penalty:—
(i)	For infringements by the kicker’s
team—the kick shall be disallowed.
(n*) For infringements by the opposing
team—the charge shall be disallowed; if
the kick has been taken the kicker shall
be allowed the option of another kick
under the original conditions without the
charge.
Under Laws 23 and 25 :—
When a player is placing the ball neither
he nor the kicker shall wilfully do anything
which may lead their opponents to charge
63
before the ball has been placed on the
ground; in the event of either doing so, the .
charge shall not be disallowed.
Under Laws 23, 24 and 25 :—
A goal may be awarded if the ball, after
being kicked, is illegally touched by any of
the opposing team, if the Referee is of \/
opinion that a goal would otherwise un-
doubtedly have been obtained.
LAW 26. Try. A try is scored in the following
cases :—
(a) If a player pass, knock, or kick the ball
into his own In-goal and an opponent first 1
ground it.
(d)	If a team in a scrummage push the
other team over the latter’s goal line and
first ground the ball in In-goal. If the
defending team ground it, a Touch-down
shall be awarded.
(c) If a player ground the ball in his
opponents’ In-goal and pick it up again, a
try shall be awarded where it was first
grounded.
The Referee shall award a try if, in his
opinion, one would undoubtedly have been
obtained but for the unfair play or unlawful
64
interference of the defending team. Such
try shall be awarded on a line parallel to the
touch lines through the place where the ball
was when the infringement occurred.
A try may be scored by a player who is in
touch or in touch-in-goal provided he is not
carrying the ball.
The Referee shall allow a touch-down
when he is unable to decide which team first
grounded the ball in In-goal.
LAW 27. Touch. The ball is in touch :—
(a) When, not being in the possession of
a player, it touches or crosses a touch
line.
If the ball cross a touch line and is then
V blown back, it is in touch at the place where
it first crossed the line.
(b) When the ball in a player’s possession
or a player carrying it touches a touch line
or the ground beyond it.
A player may be in touch and yet play the
ball with his foot if the ball is not in touch.
G5
The ball must be brought into play by an
opponent of the player whom it last touched
in the field-of-play, unless such player carry-
ing the ball is physically forced into touch by
an opponent, in which case it shall be
brought into play by the player so forced or
by one of his team.
A player throwing the ball in from touch
must have both feet in touch; otherwise the
ball shall be thrown in again.
The ball must be brought into play at the
place where it went into touch by one of the
following methods :—
(1) Throwing it into the field of play so
as to alight at least five yards from and
at right angles to the touch line,
or
(2)	Forming a scrummage ten yards
from the place where it went into touch,
at right anges to the touch lines.
If the ball when thrown in from touch
does not alight as in (1), the opposing team
shall bring the ball into play as in (2).
Law 10 (m) as to advantage does not apply
in the event of (1) not being complied with.
66
LAW 28. Wilful throwing, etc., into touch.
If a player wilfully pass, knock, or throw the
ball into touch, the opposing team shall be
awarded at their option a penalty kick or
a scrummage :—
(a) At right angles to the touch line ten
yards from the place where the ball went
into touch,
or
(b)	At the place where such pass, knock
or throw occurred.
In the case of a penalty kick the place,
whether under (a) or (/?), shall be taken as the
mark. This Law does not over-ride the power
of the Referee to allow a try under Law 26.
, LAW 29. Touch-in-goal. The ball is in Touch-
in-goal : —
(a) When, not being in possession of a
player, it touches a corner post, or touches or
crosses a Touch-in-goal line.
(b) When the ball in a player’s possession,
or a player carrying it touches a corner post
or touches a Touch-in-goal line or the
ground beyond it.
The flag shall not be regarded as part of
the corner post.
67
LAW 30. Ball, etc., touching Referee. If the
bail or a player carrying it touch the Referee
in the field-of-play a scrummage shall be
ordered at that place.
If the ball in a player’s possession, or a
player carrying it touches the Referee in
that player’s In-goal, a Touch-down shall be
awarded; and if the ball, while in play in
In-goal at either end, but not held by a
player, touch the Referee, a Touch Judge, or
a spectator, a Touch-down shall be awarded,
provided that a Touch-down would otherwise
have been obtained, or the ball would have
gone dead; and if the issue is in doubt when
the ball touches a spectator, a Touch-down
shall be awarded the visiting team, provided
they are the defending team.
If a player cross his opponents’ goal line
with the ball in his possession and, before
grounding it, touch the Referee, a try shall
be awarded at that place.
If the ball while in play in In-goal at either
end, but not held by a player, touch the
Referee, a Touch Judge, or spectator, a try
shall be awarded at that place, provided an
attacking player would otherwise have scored
it; and if the issue is in doubt when the ball
68
touches a spectator, a try shall be awarded at
that place to the visiting team, provided they
are the attacking team.
LAW 31. Ball held in In-goal. If the ball
while in the possession of a player in In-goal
is fairly held by an opposing player before it
is grounded, a scrummage shall be formed
five yards from the goal line opposite the
place where it was held.
LAW 32. Taking ball over own goal line. If
a defending player wilfully kick, pass, knock,
or carry the ball back ovei his own goal line,
and it is there made dead, except in the case
where a try is obtained, the ball shall be
brought back and a scrummage formed at
the place from which it was kicked, passed,
knocked or carried back. This Law covers
heeling back or an intentional fumble where-
by the ball goes into a player’s own In-goal,
provided it is made dead in each case.
LAW 33. Infringements in In-goal, etc. The
Referee must disallow a try and award a
Touch-down if in his opinion a try would
undoubtedly not have been gained but for
unfair play or unlawful interference on the
part of the attacking team.
69
For infringements in in-goal not provided
for, the penalty shall be :—
(a) For an offence by the attacking team
—a Touch-down.
(&) For an offence by the defending team
—a scrummage five yards from the goal line
opposite the place of infringement.
.AW 34. Foul play, Misconduct. The follow-
ing are prohibited :—
(a) Foul play, including—
(1) wilful hacking, tripping, or k
striking. \
(2) wilfully holding a player not in
possession .of the ball.
(3)	illegal tackling, pushing, charg- ...
ing or obstructing.
(6) Misconduct.
Penalty:—For (a) and (b) :—The Referee
shall award a penalty kick at the place of
infringement (subject to Law 19 (/) ), and on
the first offence shall either caution the player
or order him off the playing enclosure. For
the second offence he must order him off.
70
Note:—The attention of Referees is drawn
to this Law covering " obstruction ” or
“ interference,” which must be very sharply
dealt with, as there is a tendency amongst
players to risk a penalty kick in order to
gain or save a try by unfair play.
(c)	Persistent infringement of the Laws.
Penalty:—The Referee must order the
player off the playing enclosure.
If ordered off the player shall take no
further part in the match in progress, and
must be reported to this Union by the
Referee. In International matches the report
is to be made to the International Board.
LAW 35. Waste of time. Waste of time
caused intentionally by any player, or by a
team, including the wilful infringement of
any Law or Laws for which the penalty is
only a scrummage, is illegal.
Penalty: Penalty kick awarded at the
place of infringement.
Note:—-When a penalty kick is awarded
for infringements in throwing the ball in
from touch, the mark for such kick shall be
71
leu yards from the touch line on a line
through the place of infringement parallel to
the goal lines. Persistent infringements
should, be dealt with under Law 3J/. (c).
LAW 36. Irregularities not provided for.
When a Law is broken or any irregularity
of play not otherwise provided for occurs, and
an advantage is gained therefrom by the
opposing team, the Referee shall not blow his
whistle but shall allow the game to continue;
but if no advantage is gained by such team
and if no other procedure is provided, the
ball shall be taken back to the place where
the breach of the Law or irregularity
occurred and a scrummage formed there.
71
The International Rugby Football Board has
passed the following resolutions :—
"That the employment of a paid Trainer
or Coach is contrary to the principles of
Amateur Rugby Football.”
“That it is contrary to the spirit of
Amateur Rugby Football that teams should
be assembled at a centre during a period
prior to a match for the purpose of change
of air and training.”
“It also recommends that no memento
exceeding in value the sum of £2 shall be
given to players.”
APPEALS
to the
Rugby Football Union Committee
on
Referees’ Decisions on Points of Law.
Clubs are requested to notice that when they
desire to make an appeal on points which have
occurred in a particular Match, before forwarding
the Appeal to the Secretary the statement should
be submitted to the Referee for his views to be
expressed on it.