
The
LAWS OF THE GAME
OF RUGBY FOOTBALL
with
INSTRUCTIONS AND NOTES
ON THE LAWS
as framed by
The International Rugby
Football Board
© International Rugby Football Board
Front Cover photograph by Colorsport
L2
CONTENTS
Page
Foreword.............................
Object of the Game.................... L6
Declaration of Amateurism............. L6
Definitions........................... ^7
Law
1.	Ground................................ ^9
2.	Ball.................................. L12
3.	Number of Players..................... L13
4.	Players’Dress......................... L15
5.	Toss, Time............................ L16
6.	Referee and Touch Judges.............. L17
7.	Mode of Play.......................... L25
8.	Advantage............................. L26
9.	Ball or Player Touching Referee....... L27
10.	Kick-off............................. L28
11.	Method of Scoring.................... L30
12.	Try and Touch-down................... L31
13.	Kick at Goal after a Try............. L33
14.	In-goal.............................. L36
15.	Drop-out............................. L41
16.	Fair-catch (Mark).................... L42
17.	Knock-on or Throw-forward............ L43
18.	Tackle............................... L45
19.	Lying with, on or near the ball...... L48
L3
Page
20.	Scrummage............................ L49
21.	Ruck................................. L58
22.	Maul................................. L59
23.	Touch and Line-out................... L61
24.	Off-side............................. L72
A.	In General Play................ L73
B.	At Scrummage................... L76
C.	At Ruck or Maul................ L78
D.	At Line-out.................... L80
25.	On-side.............................. L84
26.	Foul Play............................ L87
27.	Penalty Kick......................... L99
28.	Free Kick............................ L103
Index................................. L108
IRFB Directives....................... LI 15
RFU Rulings........................... L122
FOR YOUR INFORMATION
1)	Law changes are indicated by a black line in the
left-hand margin.
L4
2)	The “Notes to the Laws” have been placed next to the
individual Law to which the Note pertains. The Laws
are printed in black with associated penalties in red;
the Notes are in blue. To avoid confusion the
numbers designating each note are in ROMAN
instead of ARABIC numerals.
3)	E indicates an Experimental Variation.
EXPLANATION: The “Experimental Variations”
are intended to minimise the possibility of accidental
injury during the formation and setting of a
scrummage and particularly to reduce the possibility
of the front rows collapsing. A crouched position and
a “normal stance” are seen as important components
of this intent and should be viewed as such. Although
normal stance is not defined, it would involve a player
facing his opponents squarely, being correctly bound,
with shoulders not lower than hips, both feet on the
ground and not crossed until the ball has been put in.
In considering this intention, the requirement of
Law 20 (14) (b), that players in the front rows must
not at any time during the scrummage wilfully adopt
any position which is likely to cause the scrummage to
collapse, should also be noted. With the
Experimental Variations it is for the referee to
decide, under the conditions applicable at the time,
whether players may be “likely to cause the
scrummage to collapse” through the stance they
adopt after the front rows have engaged.
L5
FOREWORD
The Laws of the Game are complete and contain all
that is necessary to enable the game to be played
correctly and fairly. Nevertheless, in a complex game
where so many diverse situations can arise, the Board
finds it necessary to instruct all concerned as to the
meaning and effect of some of the Laws, and to add
emphasis to duties which the Laws place on the referee.
This is all the more necessary because lack of uniformity
in referees’ decisions is bad for the game.
These Instructions and Notes are, therefore, issued by
the International Rugby Football Board so that all
concerned in every country may follow a consistent and
uniform practice.
It is the duty of the referee (Law 6A(3)) to apply fairly
the Laws of the Game without any variation or omission.
Equally, the referee is obliged to follow the instructions
and guide-lines herein laid down by the International
Board.
L6
LAWS OF THE GAME OF
RUGBY FOOTBALL
OBJECT OF THE GAME
The Object of the Game is that two teams of fifteen
players each, observing fair play according to the Laws
and a sporting spirit, should by carrying, passing, and
kicking the ball score as many points as possible, the team
scoring the greater number of points to be the winner of
the match.
DECLARATION OF AMATEURISM
The game is an amateur game. No one is allowed to seek
or to receive payment or other material reward for taking
part in the Game.
L7
DEFINITIONS
The following terms have the meaning assigned to
them:
Beyond or Behind or In front of any position implies
“with both feet’’, except when unsuited to the context.
Dead means that the ball is for the time being out of
play. This occurs when the referee blows his whistle to
indicate a stoppage of play or when an attempt to convert
a try is unsuccessful.
Defending Team means the team in whose half of the
ground the stoppage of play occurs and the opponents of
the defending team are referred to as “the Attacking
Team”.
Kick. A kick is made by propelling the ball with part of
the leg or foot (except the heel), from the knee to toe
inclusive. If the player is holding the ball, he must propel
it out of his hands, or if it is on the ground, he must
propel it a visible distance.
Drop Kick. A drop kick is made by letting the ball fall
from the hand (or hands) to the ground and kicking it at
the first rebound as it rises.
Place Kick. A place kick is made by kicking the ball
after it has been placed on the ground for that purpose.
Punt. A punt is made by letting the ball fall from the
hand (or hands) and kicking it before it touches the
ground.
L8
Mark. The mark is the place at which a free kick or
penalty kick is awarded.
Line Through the Mark (or Place). Except where
specifically stated otherwise, the words “a line through
the mark” or “a line through the place” always means a
line parallel to the touch line.
Union means the controlling body under whose
jurisdiction the match is played and in the case of an
International Match it means the International Rugby
Football Board or a Committee thereof.
Other definitions are included in and have effect as part
of the Laws.
L9
Law 1
LAWS
LAW 1. GROUND.
The field-of-play is the area as shown on the plan,
bounded by, but not including, the goal lines and touch
lines.
The playing area is the field-of-play and In-goal. The
playing enclosure is the playing area and a reasonable
area surrounding it.
The Plan, including all words and figures thereon, is to
take effect as part of these Laws.
The Terms appearing on the Plan are to bear their
apparent meaning and to be deemed part of the
definitions as if separately included.
(1)	All lines shown on the plan must be suitably
marked out. The touch lines are in touch. The goal lines
are In-goal. The dead-ball line is not in In-goal. The
touch-in-goal lines and corner posts are in touch-in-goal.
The goal posts are to be erected in the goal lines.
(2)	The game must be played on a ground of the area
(maximum) shown on the plan and marked in
accordance with the plan. The surface must be grass-
covered or, where this is not available, clay or sand,
provided the surface is not of dangerous hardness.
(3)	Any objection by the visiting team about the
ground or the way in which it is marked out must be
made to the referee before the first kick-off.
r m-metres
NOTES. f indicates post with flag.
Length and breadth of field to be as near to dimensions indicated as possible.
All areas to be rectangular.
-------These broken lines indicate 10 metres distance from the halfway line and
5 metres distance from the touch lines.
—These lines at the goal lines and intersecting the 22 metres and 10 metres lines
and the halfway line are 15 metres from the touch lines.
The lines at the goal lines extend 5 metres into the field of play.
Goal dimensions:—3 metres is taken from the ground to the top edge of the
crossbar and 5.60 metres inside to inside of the goal posts.
A minimum height of 1.20 metres above the ground is desirable for corner posts.
Law 1
L12
NOTE
Advertising
playing area
painted on the surface of the
is not permitted.
LAW 2. BALL.
(1)	The ball when new shall be oval in shape, of four
panels and of the following dimensions:
Length in line........... 280 to 300 mm.
Circumference (end on).... 760 to 790 mm.
Circumference (in width) .. 580 to 620 mm.
Weight................. 400 to 440 grms.
NOTE
(i)	The ball, at commencement of play, should have
a pressure equivalent to 9 ¥2 — 10 lb. per square
inch (0.6697 — 0.7031 kilograms per square
centimetre) at sea level.
(2)	The dimensions of the ball may be reduced only
for younger schoolboys.
(3)	Balls may be specially treated to make them
resistant to mud and easier to grip. The casings need not
be of leather.
NOTE
(ii) It is permissible to have spare balls available
during a match, but a team may not gain or
L13
Law 2
attempt to gain an unfair advantage through
their use or by changing them.
LAW 3. NUMBER OF PLAYERS.
(1)	A match shall be played by not more than fifteen
players in each team.
(2)	Replacement of players shall be allowed in
recognised trial matches as determined by the Unions
having jurisdiction over the match.
(3)	In all other matches, a player may be replaced
only on account of injury and subject to the following
conditions:—
(a) Not more than two players in each team may be
replaced.
Exception:
In matches between teams of schoolboys or
teams where all players are under the age of 19,
up to six players may be replaced.
(b) A player who has been replaced must NOT
resume playing in the match.
(4)	(a) In matches in which a national
representative team is playing, a player may be
replaced ONLY when, in the opinion of a
medical practitioner, the player is so injured
that he should not continue playing in the
match.
Law 3
L14
(b) For such competition and other domestic
matches as a Union gives express permission an
injured player may be replaced—
• on the advice of a medically-trained person,
or
• if a medically-trained person is not present;
with the approval of the referee.
(5)	If the referee is advised by a doctor or other
medically trained person or for any other reason
considers that a player is so injured that it would be
harmful for him to continue playing, the referee shall
require the player to leave the playing area.
(6)	Any objection by either team as regards the
number of players in a team may be made to the referee
at any time but the objection shall not affect any score
previously obtained.
NOTE
(i)	As soon as a referee becomes aware that a team
has more than the correct number of players on
the field, he must require the captain of that
team to reduce the number of players
appropriately.
Attention is drawn to LB. Resolution 7.6 which
states that “A player who has suffered definite
concussion should not participate in any match
or training for a period of at least three weeks
L15
Law 3
from the time of the injury, and then only
subject to being cleared by a proper
neurological examination.”
LAW 4. PLAYERS’ DRESS.
(1)	A player must not wear dangerous projections
such as buckles or rings.
(2)	Shoulder pads of the “harness” type must not be
worn. If the referee is satisfied that a player requires
protection following an injury to a shoulder, the wearing
of a pad of cottonwool, sponge rubber or similar soft
material may be permitted provided the pad is attached
to the body or sewn on to the jersey.
(3)	Studs of a player’s boots must conform to the
British Standard BS 6366 : 1983. They must be circular,
securely fastened to the boots and of the following
dimensions:—
Length (maximum)................. 18 mm.
(measured from sole)
Diameter at base (minimum)....... 13 mm.
Diameter at top (minimum)........ 10 mm.
Minimum diameter of washer.......20 mm.
(if separate from stud)
The wearing of a single stud at the toe of a boot is
prohibited.
(4)	The referee has power to decide before or during
the match that any part of a player’s dress is dangerous.
Law 4
L16
He must then order the player to remove the dangerous
part and permit him to resume playing in the match only
after it has been removed.
LAW 5. TOSS, TIME.
No-side is the end of a match.
(1) Before a match begins the captains shall toss for
the right to kick-off, or the choice of ends.
(2)	The duration of play in a match shall be such time
not exceeding eighty minutes as shall be directed by the
Union or, in the absence of such direction, as agreed
upon by the teams or, if not agreed, as fixed by the
referee. In International matches two periods of forty
minutes each shall be played.
NOTE
(i) The term “not exceeding eighty minutes”
excludes any extra time which the Union may
direct or authorise to be played in the case of a
drawn match in a knock-out competition.
(3)	Play shall be divided into two halves. At half-time
the teams shall change ends and there shall be an interval
of not more than five minutes.
(4)	A period not exceeding one minute shall be
allowed for treatment of an injury to a player or for any
ot er permitted delay. A longer period may be allowed
L17
Law 5
only if the additional time is required for the removal of
an injured player from the playing area.
Playing time lost as a result of any such permitted
delay or of delay in taking a kick at goal shall be made up
in that half of the match in which the delay occurred,
subject to the power vested in the referee to declare
no-side before time has expired.
NOTE
(ii)	The referee must make up lost time through any
delay in taking a kick at goal. This applies
whether or not the referee considers the delay to
be “undue delay” on the part of the kicker.
Playing time lost should begin from 40 seconds
after the player has indicated his intention to
kick at goal.
LAW 6. REFEREE AND TOUCH JUDGES.
A.	Referee.
(1) There shall be a referee for every match. He shall
be appointed by or under the authority of the Union or,
in case no such authorised referee has been appointed, a
referee may be mutually agreed upon between the teams
or, failing such agreement, he shall be appointed by the
home team.
(2)	If the referee is unable to officiate for the whole
period of a match a replacement shall be appointed
Law 6
L18
either in such manner as may be directed by the Union,
or in the absence of such direction, by the referee or, if
he is unable to do so, by the home team.
(3)	The referee shall keep the time and the score, and
he must in every match apply fairly the Laws of the Game
without any variation or omission, except only when the
Union has authorised the application of an experimental
law approved by the International Board.
NOTES
(i) If the referee is in doubt as to the correct time he
should consult either or both of the touch
judges. Only if the information given by them is
insufficient may he consult another person.
(ii) Where the referee allows time for delays the
time must be made up in the half of the match in
which the delay occurs.
(iii)	The referee has power to declare no-side before
time has expired if, in his opinion, the full time
cannot for any reason be played or continuance
of play would be dangerous.
(iv)	Where a player is injured, the referee should not
allow more than one minute’s delay unless a
longer period is necessary to remove the player.
or to give essential treatment on the playing
area.
L19
Law 6
(v)	The referee should not allow time for injury if he
has reason to believe that a player is feigning
injury. In such circumstances he should order
the player to be removed immediately from the
playing area and then order play to be resumed
forthwith.
(vi)	The referee should, when the ball is dead, allow
time for a player to replace or repair a badly torn
jersey or shorts. He must not allow time for a
player to retie or repair a bootlace.
(4)	He must not give any instruction or advice to
either team prior to the match. During the match he
must not consult with anyone except only
(a)	either or both touch judges on a point of
fact relevant to their functions, or on
matters relating to Law 26 (3), or
(b)	in regard to time.
(5)	The referee is the sole judge of fact and of law.
All his decisions are binding on the players. He cannot
alter a decision except when given before he observes
that a touch judge’s flag is raised or before he has
received a report related to Law 26(3) from a touch
judge.
(6)	The referee must carry a whistle and must blow it
(a)	to indicate the beginning of the match, half-
time, resumption of play after half-time,
no-side, a score or a touch-down, and
Law 6
L20
(b)	to stop play because of infringement or
otherwise as required by the Laws.
NOTES
(vii)	The referee has power to stop the match at any
time by blowing his whistle but he must not do so
except on the occasions indicated in Law 6 A (6)
which include the following:
(a)	when he orders a scrummage;
(b)	when the ball has gone into touch or touch-
in-goal. or touched or crossed the dead-ball
lines;
(c)	when the ball has been grounded in In-goal;
(d)	when the ball is unplayable;
(e)	when he stops for an offence under Law 26
(3)	prior to ordering off or cautioning the
offender; and in such a case must whistle a
second time when he awards the penalty try
or kick;
(f)	when he awards a penalty kick or free kick;
(g)	when he allows a fair-catch;
(h)	when the ball or player carrying it has
touched him and one team has therefrom
gained an advantage;
(i)	when a player is injured but only when the
ball next becomes dead unless (j) below
applies;
(j) when continuance of play would be
L21
Law 6
dangerous, including the collapse of a
scrummage.
(viii)	The referee should whistle for half-time or no-
side as soon as time has expired if the ball be
dead or if the ball be in play when the time has
expired, as soon as the ball next becomes dead.
If the ball becomes dead after time has expired.
(a) as the result of a try the referee shall allow
the kick to be taken and then whistle for
half-time or no-side, or if it be
(b) as the result of a fair catch, free kick or
penalty kick the referee shall allow play to
proceed until the ball next becomes dead.
If time expires before the ball is put into a
scrummage or is thrown in from touch, the
referee must whistle for half-time, or no-side.
(7)	During a match no person other than the players,
the referee and the touch judges may be within the
playing enclosure or the playing area unless with the
permission of the referee which shall be given only for a
special and temporary purpose.
NOTE
(ix)	The referee should, when necessary, but not
before he indicates his permission, allow
baggage attendants and doctors or first aid
personnel to enter the playing enclosure and
Law 6
L22
playing area. He should be strict in refusing
permission to persons intending to give advice
or instructions to a team, and players should not
be allowed to leave the playing area to get advice
or instructions. Latitude should, however, be
allowed in recognised trial matches.
(8)	(a) All players must respect the authority of the
referee and they must not dispute his decisions.
They must (except in the case of a kick-off) stop
playing at once when the referee has blown his
whistle.
(b) A player must when so requested whether
before or during the match, allow the referee to
inspect his dress.
(c)	A player must not leave the playing enclosure
without the referee’s permission. If a player
retires during a match because of injury or
otherwise, he must not resume playing in that
match until the referee has given his permission.
NOTES
(x)	Apart from injury the referee should not allow a
player to leave the playing enclosure except in
special circumstances.
The referee should not permit a player to
resume until the ball is dead.
(xi)	The referee must not permit a team or individual
L23
Law 6
players to leave the playing area in order to
change jerseys.
(xii)	If a player who has retired on account of injury
or other reason resumes playing without the
permission of the referee, the referee should
impose penalties for misconduct if he considers
that the offence was wilful for the purpose of
assisting his team or obstructing the opponents.
If the offence was not wilful interference and if
the offending team gains an advantage the
referee should order a scrummage at the place
where the player resumed playing without
permission, and the opposing team shall put in
the ball.
Penalty:— Infringement by a player is subject to
penalty as misconduct.
B.	Touch Judges.
(1)	There shall be two touch judges for every match.
Unless touch judges have been appointed by or under
the authority of the Union, it shall be the responsibility
of each team to provide a touch judge.
(2)	A touch judge is under the control of the referee
who may instruct him as to his duties and may over-rule
any of his decisions. The referee may request that an
unsatisfactory touch judge be replaced and he has power
to order off and report to the Union a touch judge who in
his opinion is guilty of misconduct.
Law 6
L24
(3)	Each touch judge shall carry a flag (or other
suitable object) to signal his decisions. There shall be one
touch judge on each side of the ground and he shall
remain in touch except when judging a kick at goal.
(4)	He must hold up his flag when the ball or a playei
carrying it has gone into touch and must indicate the
place of throw in and which team is entitled to do so. He
must also signal to the referee when the ball or a playei
carrying it has gone into touch-in-goal.
(5)	The touch judge shall lower his flag when the ball
has been thrown in except on the following occasion'
when he must keep it raised:—
(a)	when the player throwing in the ball puts an)
part of either foot in the field-of-play,
(b)	when the ball has not been thrown in by the team
entitled to do so,
(c)	when, at a quick throw-in, the ball that went into
touch is replaced by another or is handled by
anyone other than the players.
It is for the referee to decide whether or not the ball
has been thrown in from the correct place.
(6)	In matches in which a national representative
team is playing and in such domestic matches for which a
union gives express permission, and where referees
recognised by the Union are appointed as touch judges.
the touch judges may report incidents of foul play and
L25
Law 6
misconduct under Law 26(3) to the referee for the
match.
A touch judge may signal such an incident to the
referee by raising his flag to a horizontal position
pointing in the direction of the goal-line of the offending
team. The touch judge must remain in touch and
continue to carry out his other functions until the next
stoppage in play when the referee shall consult him
regarding the incident. The referee may then take
whatever action he deems appropriate and any
consequent penalties shall be in accordance with Law
26(3).
(7)	When a kick at goal from a try, or penalty kick is
being taken both touch judges must assist the referee by
signalling the result of the kick. One touch judge shall
stand at or behind each of the goal posts and shall raise
his flag if the ball goes over the cross bar.
LAW 7. MODE OF PLAY.
A match is started by a kick-off, after which any player
who is on-side may at any time
• catch or pick up the ball and run with it,
• pass, throw or knock the ball to another
player,
• kick or otherwise propel the ball,
Law 7
L26
• tackle, push or shoulder an opponent
holding the ball,
• fall on the ball,
• take part in scrummage, ruck, maul or line-
out,
provided he does so in accordance with these Laws.
NOTE
(i)	If a player hands the ball to another player of his
team without any propulsion or throwing of the
ball, this does constitute a pass.
LAW 8. ADVANTAGE.
The referee shall not whistle for an infringement
during play which is followed by an advantage
gained by the non-offending team. An
advantage must be either territorial or such
possession of the ball as constitutes an obvious
tactical advantage. A mere opportunity to gain
advantage is not sufficient.
NOTES
(i)	The referee is given a wide discretion as to what
constitutes an advantage and is not limited to a
territorial advantage. The referee is the sole
judge ofwhether an advantage has been gained.
L27
Law 8
(ii)	The only occasions when advantage does not
apply are:—
(a) when the ball or a player carrying it touches
the referee (Law 9 (1));
(b) when the ball emerges from either end of
the tunnel at a scrummage not having been
played (Law 20, note (xii));
(c)	when a player is “accidentally” off-side
(Exception (i) Law 24 (A) (2) (b)).
(iii)	When any irregularity of play not provided for in
the Laws occurs, a scrummage shall be formed
where the irregularity occurred. In deciding
which team should put in the ball, the referee
should apply Law 20 (7).
,AW 9. BALL OR PLAYER TOUCHING
IEFEREE.
(1)	If the ball or a player carrying it touches the
referee in the field-of-play, play shall continue
unless the referee considers either team has
gained an advantage in which case he shall order
a scrummage. The team which last played the
ball shall put it in.
(2)	(a) If the ball in a player’s possession or a player
carrying it touches the referee in that player’s
In-goal, a touch-down shall be awarded.
L28
Law 9
(b)	If a player carrying the ball m his opponents
In-goal touches the referee before grounding
the ball, a try shall be awarded at that place.
NOTES
(i) If the ball, while in play in In-goal at either end
but not held by a player, touches the referee, a
touch judge, or a spectator, a touch-down shall
be awarded provided that a touch-down would
otherwise have been obtained or the ball would
have gone into touch-in-goal or on or over the
dead-ball line.
(ii)	If the ball while in play in In-goal at either end.
but not held by a player, touches the referee, a
touch judge, or a spectator, a try shall be
awarded at that place provide an attacking
player would otherwise have scored it.
(iii)	When the ball touches a spectator in either of
the above cases, if the referee is in doubt, the
award shall be made to the visiting team if that
team is the defending team under (i) or the
attacking team under (ii).
LAW 10. KICK-OFF.
h^ V aPlace kick taken from the centre of the
y ne y a [eam which has the right to start the
L29
Law 10
match or by the opposing team on the resumption of play
after the half-time interval or by the defending team after a
goal has been scored, or (b) a drop kick taken at or from
behind the centre of the half-way line by the defending
team after an unconverted try.
(1) The ball must be kicked from the correct place
and by the correct form of kick; otherwise it shall be
kicked off again.
(2)	The ball must reach the opponents’ ten metres
line, unless first played by an opponent; otherwise it shall
be kicked off again, or a scrummage formed at the
centre, at the opponents’ option. If it reaches the ten
metres line and is then blown back, play shall continue.
(3)	If the ball pitches directly into touch, touch-in-
goal or over or on the dead-ball line, the opposing team
may accept the kick, have the ball kicked off again, or
have a scrummage formed at the centre.
(4)	The kicker’s team must be behind the ball when
kicked; otherwise a scrummage shall be formed at the
centre.
(5)	The opposing team must stand on or behind the
ten metres line. If they are in front of that line or if they
charge before the ball has been kicked, it shall be kicked
off again.
L30
Law 11
LAW 11. METHOD OFSCORING.
Try. A try is scored by first grounding the ball in th
opponents’ In-goal.
A try shall be awarded if one would probably hav
been scored but for foul play by the opposing team.
Goal. A goal is scored by kicking the ball over th
opponents’ cross-bar and between the goal posts fror
the field-of-play by any place kick or drop kick, except;
kick-off, drop-out or free-kick, without touching th
ground or any player of the kicker’s team.
A goal is scored if the ball has crossed the bar, eve:
though it may have been blown backwards afterwards
and whether it has touched the cross-bar or either goa
post or not.
A goal is scored if the ball has crossed the bai
notwithstanding a prior offence of the opposing team.
A goal may be awarded if the ball is illegally touchec
by any player of the opposing team and if the referee
considers that a goal would otherwise probably have
been scored.
The scoring values are as follows:—
A try.............................................. points
A goal scored after a try.......................2 points
A goal from a penalty kick .....................3 points
dropped goal otherwise obtained...............3 points
L31
Law 12
LAW 12. TRY AND TOUCH-DOWN.
Grounding the ball is the act of a player who
(a)	while holding the ball in his hand (or hands) or
arm (or arms) brings the ball in contact with the
ground, or
(b)	while the ball is on the ground either
• places his hand (or hands) or arm (or arms)
on it with downward pressure, or
• falls upon it and the ball is anywhere under
the front of his body from waist to neck
inclusive.
Picking up the ball from the ground is not grounding it.
A.	Try.
(1) A player who is on-side scores a try when
• he carries the ball into his opponents’ In-
goal, or
• the ball is in his opponents’ In-goal, and he
first grounds it there.
(2)	The scoring of a try includes the following
cases:—
(a) if a player carries, passes, knocks or kicks the
ball into his In-goal and an opponent first
grounds it,
(b) if, at a scrummage or ruck, a team is pushed over
its goal line and before the ball has emerged it is
L32
Law 12
first grounded in In-goal by an attacking playei
(c)	if the momentum of a player, when tackled
carries him into his opponents’ In-goal and h
first there grounds the ball,
(d)	if a player first grounds the ball on hi
opponents’ goal line or if the ball is in contac
with the ground and a goal post.
(3)	If a player grounds the ball in his opponent!
In-goal and picks it up again, a try is score;
where it was first grounded.
(4)	A try may be scored by a player who is in toud
or in touch-in-goal provided he is not carrying
the ball.
B.	Penalty Try.
A penalty try shall be awarded between the posts if but
for foul play by the defending team
• a try would probably have been scored, or
• it would probably have been scored in a
more favourable position than that where
the ball was grounded.
C.	Touch-Down.
(1) A touch-down occurs when a player first
grounds the ball in his In-goal.
(2) After a touch-down play shall be restarted either
L33
Law 12
by a drop-out or a scrummage, as provided in
Law 14.
D.	Scrummage after Grounding in Case of Doubt.
Where there is doubt as to which team first grounded
the ball in In-goal, a scrummage shall be formed five
metres from the goal line opposite the place where the
ball was grounded. The attacking team shall put in the
ball.
LAW 13. KICK AT GOAL AFTER A TRY.
(1)	After a try has been scored, the scoring team has
the right to take a place kick or drop kick at goal,
on a line through the place where the try was
scored.
If the scoring team does not take the kick, play
shall be restarted by a drop kick from the centre,
unless time has expired.
(2) If a kick is taken:—
(a)	it must be taken without undue delay;
(b)	any player including the kicker may place the
ball;
(c)	the kicker’s team, except the placer, must be
behind the ball when kicked;
(d)	if the kicker kicks the ball from a placer’s hands
Law 13
L34
without the ball being on the ground, the kick is
void:
(e)	the opposing team must be behind the goal line
until the kicker begins his run or offers to kick
when they may charge or jump with a view to
preventing a goal.
(3)	Neither the kicker nor a placer shall wilfully do
anything which may lead the opposing team to
charge prematurely. If either does so. the charge
shall not be disallowed.
Penalty:- • For an infringement by the kicker’s team—
the kick shall be disallowed.
• For an infringement by the opposing
team—the charge shall be disallowed. If.
however, the kick has been taken
successfully, the goal shall stand. If it was
unsuccessful, the kicker may take another
kick under the original conditions without
the charge and may change the type of
kick.
NOTES
(i)	In addition to the general provision regarding
waste of time, the kicker is bound Jo kick
without delay, under penalty.
„ P'a\_e,r sh°uld not be permitted to be
reasonably slow in taking any kick at goal. A
L35
Law 13
period of one minute between the indication of
intention to kick at goal and the actual kick is
well inside the zone of “undue delay”. A player
who is unreasonably slow, should be warned
that if he persists in delay, penalties will be
applied.
Even without a caution, if the delay is clearly a
breach of law, the kick should be disallowed and
a kick-off ordered.
(ii)	The referee must always make up time lost by
any delay in taking the kick, as is provided for in
note (ii) under Law 5.
(iii)	The referee should see that the opposing players
do not gradually creep up and that they have
both feet behind the goal line, otherwise he
should disallow the charge.
(iv)	Shouting by the defending team during a kick at
goal should be treated as misconduct and, if no
goal is scored, another kick should be allowed
without the charge.
(v)	When another kick is allowed for any reason, all
the original preliminaries may be retaken.
(vi)	If the ball rolls over and away from the line
through the place where the try was scored and
the ball is kicked over the crossbar, a goal should
be awarded.
(vii)	If, after the kicker has commenced his run. the
L36
Law 13
ball rolls over into touch, another kick under the
original conditions should not be allowed.
(viii)	The kick must be taken with the ball which was
in play unless the referee decides that the ball is
defective.
(ix)	The law does not allow the use of sand or
sawdust for placing the ball on hard playing
fields when taking a place kick at goal, but in
exceptional local conditions, such a variation
from normal practice might be permitted.
LAW 14. IN-GOAL.
In-goal is the area bounded by a goal-line, touch-in-
goal lines and dead-ball line. It includes the goal lines and
goal posts but excludes touch-in-goal lines and dead-ball
line.
Touch-in-goal occurs when the ball or player carrying it
touches a corner post or a touch-in-goal line or the ground
or a person or object on or beyond it. The flag is not part
of the corner post.
Five Metres Scrummage
th u I*"3 P’a^er carrying the ball in In-goal is so held
at e cannot ground the ball, a scrummage shall be
orme u 1Ve metres from the goal line opposite the place
where he was held.
The attacking team shall put in the ball.
L37
Law 14
(2)	(a) If a defending player heels, kicks, carries,
passes or knocks the ball over his goal line and it
there becomes dead except where
o a try is scored, or
o he wilfully knocks or throws the ball from
the field-of-play into touch-in-goal or over
his dead-ball line, or
(b)	if a defending player in In-goal has his kick
charged down by an attacking player after
• he carried the ball back from the field-of-
play, or
• a defending player put it into In-goal and
the ball is then touched down or goes into
touch-in-goal or over the dead-ball line, or
(c)	if a defending player carrying the ball in the
field-of-play is forced into his In-goal and he
then touches down, or
(d)	if, at a scrummage or ruck, a defending team
with the ball in its possession is pushed over its
goal line and before the ball has emerged first
grounds it in In-goal,
a scrummage shall be formed five metres from the goal
line opposite the place where the ball or a player carrying
it crossed the goal line.
The attacking team shall put in the ball.
L38
Law 14
NOTES
m If a defending player wilfully puts the ball back
into his own In-goal, he accepts all the
consequences of taking that action. Many things
may happen in In-goal after the ball has been
carried, passed, knocked, heeled or kicked back
by a defending player and it may be quite an
appreciable time before the ball becomes dead
and Law 14 applies.
(ii)	Paragraph 2 (b) of Law 14 applies whether the
attacking player charges down the kick in the
field-of-play or in In-goal.
(iii)	If play similar to a maul takes place in In-goal,
Law 14 (I) applies.
Drop-Out.
(3)	Except where the ball is knocked on or thrown
forward or a try or goal is scored, if an attacking player
kicks, carries or passes the ball and it travels into his
opponents’ In-goal either directly or after having
touched a defender who does not wilfully attempt to
stop, catch or kick it, and it is there
• grounded by a player of either team, or
* goes into touch-in-goal or over the dead-
ball-line
a drop-out shall be awarded.
L39
Law 14
Penalties
(a) A penalty try shall be awarded when by foul play
in In-goal the defending team has prevented a
try which otherwise would probably have been
scored.
(b) A try shall be disallowed and a drop-out
awarded, if a try would probably not have been
gained but for foul play by the attacking team.
(c)	For foul play in In-goal while the ball is out of
play the penalty kick shall be awarded at the
place where play would otherwise have restarted
and, in addition, the player shall either be
ordered off or cautioned that he will be sent off if
he repeats the offence.
(d)	For wilfully charging or obstructing in In-goal a
player who has just kicked the ball the penalty
shall be
© a drop-out, or, at the option of the non-
offending team,
° a penalty kick where the ball alights as
provided for an infringement of Law- 26
(3) (d).
(e)	for other infringements in In-goal, the penalty
shall be:—
° for an offence by the attacking team — a
drop-out.
Law 14
L40
• for an offence by the defending team
scrummage five metres from the goal line
opposite the place of infringement.
NOTES
(iv)The decisions open to the referee for
infringements in In-goal are:
(a) For an offence by the attacking team—
(i)	a drop-out. or
(ii)	warning and/or sending off the player for
foul play, or
(iii)	a penalty kick for foul play in In-goaPwhile
the ball is out of play.
(b) For an offence by the defending team—
(i)	a five metres scrummage, or
(ii)	a penalty try, or
(iii)	warning and/or sending off the player for
foul play, or
(iv)	a penalty kick for foul play in In-goal while
the ball is out of play.
(v)	A penalty kick must not be awarded for an
offence in In-goal except only when either Law
14 Penalty (d) or Law 26 (3) (h) applies. In the
alter case the penalty kick is to be taken either
at the twenty-two metres line (at any point the
L41
Law 14
non-offending team may select) or at the centre
of the half-way line, whichever is the place
where play would restart.
(vi)	If from a free kick or penalty kick taken in
In-goal the ball is made dead by the defending
team before it has crossed the goal-line, a
scrummage shall be awarded to the attacking
team five metres from the goal-line opposite to
where it was made dead.
LAW 15. DROP-OUT.
A drop-out is a drop kick awarded to the defending
team.
(1)	The drop kick must be taken from anywhere on
or behind the twenty-two metres line; otherwise the ball
shall be dropped out again.
(2)	The ball must reach the twenty-two metres line,
otherwise the opposing team may have it dropped out
again, or have a scrummage formed at the centre of the
twenty-two metres line. If it reaches the twenty-two
metres line and is then blown back, play shall continue.
NOTE
(i)	If the ball does not reach the twenty-two metres
line and an opponent picks up the ball and
grounds it over the kicker's goal line, a try
should be awarded.
L42
Law 15
(3)	If the ball pitches directly into touch, thf
opposing team may accept the kick, have the bat
dropped out again, or have a scrummage formed at th
centre of the twenty-two metres line.
(4)	The kicker’s team must be behind the ball whec
kicked; otherwise a scrummage shall be formed at the
centre of the twenty-two metres line.
(5)	The opposing team must not charge over the
twenty-two metres line; otherwise the ball shall be
dropped out again.
NOTES
(ii)	If a player of the opposing team remains beyond
or crosses the twenty-two metres line for the
purpose of delaying or interfering with the
player who is about to drop-out. a penally under
Law 26 (3) (h) should be awarded.
(iii)	The advantage law applies where the drop-kid
does not reach the twenty-two metres line and
goes into touch.
LAW 16. FAIR-CATCH (MARK).
(a) A player makes a fair-catch when bety
stationary with both feet on the ground on his side
twe^lty'two metres line he cleanly catches
the ball direct from a kick, knock-on or throw-
forward by one of his opponents and, at the same
hme, he exclaims “Mark!”
L43
Law 16
A fair-catch may be obtained even though the ball
on its way touches a goal post or crossbar and can
be made in In-goal.
(b) A free kick is awarded for a fair-catch.
(1)	The kick must be taken by the player making the
fair-catch, unless he is injured in so doing. If he is unable
to take the kick within one minute a scrummage shall be
formed at the mark. His team shall put in the ball.
(2)	If the mark is in In-goal any resultant scrummage
shall be five metres from the goal line on a line through
the mark.
NOTES
(i)	“His side of his twenty-two metres line" means
that no part of either foot is on or beyond his
twenty-two metres line.
(ii)	If an opponent unfairly charges the catcher in
the field-of-play after the referee has blown his
whistle for a fair catch, a penalty kick shall be
awarded. If the charge occurs in In-goal, a drop-
out shall be awarded.
LAW 17. KNOCK-ON OR THROW-FORWARD.
k,noc,k'o,‘ occllrs when the ball travels forward
after— d‘recllon °f the opponents’ dead-ball line
• a player loses possession of it, or
L44
Law 17
• a player propels or strikes it with his hand*
arm, or
• it strikes a player’s hand or arm
A throw-forward occurs when a player carrying thebe
throws or passes it in the direction of his opponent
dead-ball line. A throw-in from touch is not a thro-.
forward. If the ball is not thrown or passed forward bun
bounces forward after hitting a player or the ground, iu
not a throw-forward.
NOTES
(i) A pass, throw or knock-on should not k
adjudged an infringement unless it is clearly sc
under Law. If there is any doubt, play should be
allowed to proceed.
(ii) A fair-catch can be made from a knock-on.
(1) The knock-on or throw forward must not k
intentional.
Penalty: Penalty kick at the place of infringement.
(2)	If the knock-on or throw-forward i:
unintentional, a scrummage shall be formed either at tk
place of infringement or, if it occurs at a line-out, fifteen
metres from the touch line along the line-of-touch
• a fair catch has been allowed, or
• the ball is knocked on by a player who isi»
the act of charging down the kick of a11
L45
Law 17
opponent but is not attempting to catch the
ball, or
• the ball is knocked on one or more times
by a player who is in the act of catching or
picking it up or losing possession of it and is
recovered by that player before it has
touched the ground or another player.
NOTE
(iii)	If an attacking player knocks-on or throws
forward in the field-of-play and the ball travels
into In-goal either directly or after having
touched a defender who does not wilfully
attempt to stop, catch or kick it, and it is there
(a) grounded by a player of either team, or
(b) goes into touch-in-goal or over the dead-
ball line,
a scrummage should be awarded at the
place of the knock-on or throw-forward.
LAW 18. TACKLE.
A tackle occurs when a player carrying the ball in the
field-of-play is held by one or more opponents so that
while he is so held he is brought to the ground or the ball
comes into contact with the ground. If the ball carrier is on
one npp nr kntu or sit(ing on the ground, or is
who is on the ground, the ball
been brought to the ground.
on top of another player
carrier is deemed to have.
L46
Law 18
(1) A tackled player must play the ball immediate;!
or if unable to play it, must release it immediately ar
get up or move away from it. He must not play the bd
again or interfere with it in any way until he is on his fee]
Any other player must:—
• be on his feet before he can play the ball,
• not fall on or over a player lying on th
ground with the ball in his possession,
• not fall on or over players lying on ttel
ground with the ball between them orb'
close proximity.
NOTES
(i) The requirement to play or release the ba;
immediately allows a player to put the ball o:
the ground in any direction or to his side.
provided he does so as soon as the tackle occurs
A tackled player is permitted to pass or thro*
the ball or push it along the ground provided he
does so immediately and it is not in a forward
direction.
(ii) It is not a tackle if the ball carrier is lifted by ar
opponent so that both his feet are off the
ground.
® h n !ac^ec^ Player does not play or release the
ball immediately and the referee is in doubt as w
responsibility for failure to play or release it.ht
should at once order a scrummage.
L47
Law 18
(2)	It is illegal for any player:—
° to prevent a tackled player from playing or
releasing the ball, or getting up after he has
played or released it, or
o to pull the ball from a tackled player’s
possession or attempt to pick up the ball
before the tackled player has released it, or
o while lying on the ground after a tackle to
play or interfere with the ball in any way or
to tackle or attempt to tackle an opponent
carrying the ball.
Penalty:— Penalty kick at the place of infringement.
(3)	If a player carrying the ball is thrown or knocked
over but not tackled, he may pass the ball or get up and
continue his run even though the ball has touched the
ground.
(4)	A try may be scored if the momentum of a player
carries him into his opponents’ In-goal even though he is
tackled.
NOTES
(iv)	A ruck has been formed if players of both teams
are in physical contact in close proximity around
the ball on the ground after a tackle. If the ball is
played with the hands or picked up before it
L48
Law 18
emerges from the ruck, a penalty kick should be
awarded.
(v)	Danger may arise if a tackled player fails to p]aj
or release or roll away from the ball at once oris
prevented from doing so. In such cases the
referee should not delay in awarding a penalh
kick.
(vi)	A player on one knee or both knees or sitting on
the ground is deemed to be lying on the ground.
LAW 19. LYING WITH, ON OR NEAR THE
BALL.
(1) A player who has not been tackled but whois
lying on the ground and holding the ball must
immediately pass or release the ball or roll away from it
or get up on his feet.
(2) A player or players lying on the ground in close
proximity to the ball must not prevent an opponent
gaining possession of it.
(3)	A player or players from either team must not
wilfully fall on or over a player who is lying on the ground
with the ball in his possession or in close proximity, or on
p ayers lying on the ground with the ball between them.
(4)	A player must not fall on or over the ball
emerging from a scrummage or ruck.
Penalty. Penalty kick at the place of infringement.
L49
Law 19
NOTES.
(i)	A player on one knee or both knees or sitting on
the ground is deemed to be lying on the ground.
(ii)	Advantage shall be played only if it occurs
immediately.
LAW 20. SCRUMMAGE.
A scrummage, which can take place only in the field-of-
play, is formed by players from each team closing up in
readiness to allow the ball to be put on the ground between
them but is not formed within five metres of the touchline.
The middle player in each front row is the hooker, and
the players on either side of him are the props.
The middle line means an imaginary line on the ground
directly beneath the line formed by the junction of the
shoulders of the two front rows.
NOTE
If the ball in a scrummage is on or over the goal
line the scrummage is ended.
Forming a Scrummage
(1) A team must not wilfully delay the forming of a
scrummage.
(2) Every scrummage shall be formed at the place of
infringement or as near thereto as is practicable within
L50
Law 20
the field-of-play. It must be stationary with the middle
line parallel to the goal lines until the ball has been put in.
Before commencing engagement each front row must
be in a crouched position with their heads and shoulders
E no lower than their hips and so that they are no more
than one arm’s length from their opponents’ shoulders.
NOTE
(i) To the extent that is necessary the scrummage is
to be moved from the place of infringement so
that when it is near a goal line, the line of the
front row of the defending team is in the field-of-
play before the ball is put in. The scrummage is
ended if the ball in the scrummage touches or
crosses a goal line.
(3)	It is dangerous play for a front row to form down
some distance from its opponents and rush against them.
(4)	A minimum of five players from each team shall
be required to form a scrummage. Each front row shall
have three players in it at all times. The head of a player
in the front row shall not be next to the head of a player
of the same team.
oiJ? .^hi? a scrummage is forming and is taking
'■ k , sho“,ders of each player in the front row must
miKt t^an h’s h*Ps- All players in each front row
must adopt a normal stance. Both feet must be on the
LSI
Law 20
ground and, until the ball has been correctly put in, must
E not be crossed. A hooker’s foot must not be in front of
the forward feet of his props.
NOTES
(ii)	When the place of "infringement” is within five
metres of a touch line the scrummage is to be
formed five metres from that touch line.
(iii)	The referee should not permit the front rows to
close up until the ball is in the hands of the player
and is available to be put in immediately.
(iv)	A crouched position is the extension of the
E normal stance by bending the knees sufficiently
to step into the engagement without a charge.
(v)	The restriction on the crossing of the feet of the
players in the front rows refers only to the feet of
individual players: but the feet of all players in
the front rows "must be in the position for an
effective forward shove”.
(vi)	A flank forward in the second or third row of a
scrummage may pack at an angle provided he is
properly bound. If the ball is emerging from the
back of scrummage and he moves outwards.
thereby preventing an opponent from advancing
around the scrummage, a penalty kick should be
awarded.
E (vii) In the event of a scrummage collapsing the
L52
Law 20
I
1(6)
E
(b)
(c)
(d)
referee should whistle immediately so that
players do not continue to push.
Binding of Players
(a)	The players of each front row shall bind
firmly and continuously while the scrummage is
forming, while the ball is being put in and while
it is in the scrummage.
The hooker may bind either over or under the
arms of his props but, in either case, he must
bind firmly around their bodies at or below the
level of the armpits. The props must bind the
hooker similarly. The hooker must not be
supported so that he is not carrying any weight
on either foot.
The outside (loose head) prop must either (i)
bind his opposing (tight head) prop with his left
arm inside the right arm of his opponent, or (ii)
place his left hand or forearm on his left thigh.
The tight-head prop must bind with his right arm
outside the left upper arm of his opposing loose-
head prop. He may grip the jersey of his
opposing loose-head prop with his right hand
but only to keep himself and the scrummage
steady and he must not exert a downward pull.
All players in a scrummage, other than those in a
ront row, must bind with at least one arm and
L53
Law 20
hand around the body of another player of the
same team.
(e) No outside player other than a prop may hold an
opponent with his outer arm.
Putting the Ball into the Scrummage
(7)	The team not responsible for the stoppage of play
shall put in the ball. In the event of doubt as to
responsibility the ball shall be put in by the team which
was moving forward prior to the stoppage or, if neither
team was moving forward, by the attacking team.
NOTES
(viii)	It is permissible for the outside (loose-head)
prop to alter his binding with his left arm. within
the provisions of Law 20 (6) (c), at any time
during a scrummage.
(ix)	A stoppage may be caused without any
infringement by either team.
The words “responsible for the stoppage of
play” include legitimate actions by a team, such
as falling on the ball, tackling, etc., which
prevent the opposing team from continuing
play-
(8)	The ball shall be put in without delay as soon as
the two front rows have closed together. A team must
L54
Law 20
put in the ball when ordered to do so and on the side first
chosen.
NOTES
(x)In the interests of safety, the referee has
authority to permit delay in putting in the ball if
a player in the front row has not succeeded in
getting his head down in the scrummage.
(xi)	A penally kick should be awarded if the referee
is satisfied that the delay by the team in putting
the ball in is deliberate and prejudices the other
team.
(9)	The player putting in the ball shall
(a)	stand one metre from the scrummage and
midway between the two front rows;
(b)	hold the ball with both hands midway between
the two front rows at a level midway between his
knee and ankle;
(c)	from that position put in the ball
• without any delay or without feint or
backward movement, i.e. with a single
forward movement, and
• at a quick speed straight along the middle
line so that it first touches the ground
immediately beyond the width of the
nearer prop’s shoulders.
L55
Law 20
(10)	Play in the scrummage begins when the ball
leaves the hands of the player putting it in.
(11)	If the ball is put in and it comes out at either end
of the tunnel, it shall be put in again, unless a free kick or
penalty kick has been awarded.
If the ball comes out otherwise than at either end of the
tunnel and if a penalty kick has not been awarded play
shall proceed.
NOTE
(xii)	Advantage applies as soon as the ball has been
put into the scrummage and played.
Restrictions on Front Row Players
(12)	All front row players must place their feet so as to
allow a clear tunnel. A player must not prevent the ball
being put into the scrummage, or from touching the
ground at the required place.
(13)	No front row player may raise or advance a foot
until the ball has touched the ground.
NOTE
(xiii)	Until any foot is permitted to be raised or
advanced, that foot must be kept in the normal
position.
(14)	When the ball has touched the ground, any foot
of any player in either front row may be used in an
L56
Law 20
attempt to gain possession of the ball subject to the
following:—
players in the front rows must not at any time during the
scrummage:—
(a)	raise both feet off the ground at the same time,
or
(b)	wilfully adopt any position or wilfully take any
action, by twisting or lowering the body or by
pulling on an opponent's dress, which is likely to
cause the scrummage to collapse, or
(c)	wilfully kick the ball out of the tunnel in the
direction from which it is put in.
NOTES
(xiv)	The prohibition against a player in the front row
raising both feet off the ground at the same time
or striking at the ball with both feet applies
during the whole scrummage and not merely to
the period while the ball is being put in.
(xv)	Referees must be strict in applying penalties for
wilfully kicking out. Repeated kickine out must
be treated as wilful.
(xvi)	When the referee orders the ball to be put in
again it must be put in by a player of the same
fxviil ini 'ua!,Was flrst enti,led t0 do so-
tun C| 3 !i1S ab°ul t0 Pass straight through the
ne and a far prop advances a foot so that the
passes behind the foot, the ball must be put
L57
Law 20
in again unless it has been lawfully played (i.c.
touched) by a player in the front row.
Restrictions on Players
(15)	Any player who is not in either front row must
not play the ball while it is in the tunnel.
(16)	A player must not:—
(a)	return the ball into the scrummage, or
(b)	handle the ball in the scrummage except in the
act of obtaining a ’"push over” try or touch-
down. or
(c)	pick up the ball in the scrummage by hand or
legs, or
(d)	wilfully collapse the scrummage, or
(e)	wilfully fall or kneel in the scrummage.
(f)	attempt to gain possession of the ball in the
scrummage with any part of the body except the
foot or lower leg.
NOTE
(xviii) Referees must be strict in penalising for the
wilful collapsing of scrummage as stated under
Law 20 (15)(W) and Law 26 (3)(g).
(17)	The player putting in the ball and his immediate
opponent must not kick the ball while it is in the
scrummage.
L58
Law 20
NOTE
fxix) If a player repeatedly infringes, he must be dealt
with under Law 26 (2).
Penalty:
(a)	Foran infringement of paragraphs (2), (5).
(8), (9), (12), (13) and (15) a free kickai
the place of infringement.
(b)	For an infringement of paragraphs (1). (3),
(4), (6), (14), (16) and (17) a penalty kick
at the place of infringement.
For Off-side at Scrummage see Law 24B.
LAW 21. RUCK.
A ruck, which can take place only in the field-of-play, is
formed when the ball is on the ground and one or more
players from each team are on their feet and in physical
contact, closing around the ball between them.
NOTE
If the ball in a ruck is on or over the goal line the
ruck is ended.
(^) A player joining a ruck must have his head and
E shoulders no lower than his hips. He must bind with at
east one arm around the body of a player of his team in
the ruck. 3
L59
Law 21
NOTE
(i)	The placing of a hand on another player is not
binding. Binding involves the whole arm, from
hand to shoulder.
(2)	A player must not:—
(a)	return the ball into the ruck, or
(b)	handle the ball in the ruck except in the act of
securing a try or touch-down, or
(c)	pick up the ball in the ruck by hand or legs, or
(d)	wilfully collapse the ruck, or
(e)	jump on top of other players in the ruck, or
(f)	wilfully fall or kneel in the ruck, or
(g)	while lying on the ground interfere in any way
with the ball in or emerging from the ruck. He
must do his best to roll away from it.
Penalty:— Penalty kick at the place of infringement.
For Off-side at Ruck see Law 24C.
LAW 22. MAUL.
A maul, which can take place only in the field-of-play,
is formed by one or more players from each team on their
feet and in physical contact closing round a player who is
carrying the ball.
A maul ends when the ball is on the ground or the ball
or a player carrying it emerges from the maul or when a
scrummage is ordered.
L60
Law 22
NOTE
If the ball in a maul is on or over the goal line th*
maul is ended. I
A player joining a maul must have his head an:|1
E shoulders no lower than his hips. fj
(1)	A player is not in pyhsical contact unless he
caught in or bound to the maul and not merely alongside
it.
(2)	A player must not:—
(a) jumpontopofplayersinamaul.or
E (b) wilfully collapse a maul, or
(c)	attempt to drag another player out of the maul.
Penalty:— Penalty kick at the place of infringement.
(3)	When the ball in a maul becomes unplayable a
scrummage shall be ordered and the team which was
moving forward immediately prior to the stoppage shaD
put in the ball, or if neither team was moving forward.
the attacking team shall put it in.
NOTES
(i) Before whistling for a scrummage, the referee
should allow a reasonable time for the ball to
emerge from the maul, particularly if either
team is moving forward. If in his opinion the bail
will probably not emerge from the maul without
L61
Law 22
delay, he should not allow prolonged wrestling
for the ball but should order a scrummage.
(ii)	If any player in a maul goes to the ground,
including being on one knee or both knees or is
sitting on the ground, a scrummage is to be
ordered.
For Off-side at Maul see Law 24C.
LAW 23. TOUCH AND LINE-OUT.
A Touch.
(1) The ball is in touch
° when it is not being carried by a player and
it touches a touch line or the ground or a
person or object on or beyond it, or
° when it is carried by a player and it or the
player carrying it touches a touch line or
the ground beyond it.
(2) If the ball is not in touch a player who is in touch
may kick the ball or propel it with his hand but not hold
it.
NOTES
(i) (a) If the ball pitches directly into touch from a
kick-off and the opposing team elects to accept
the kick, the line-out shall be formed
L62
Law 23
(i) at the half-way line, or
(ii) where the ball went into touch if that p|aCt
be nearer to the kicker's goal-line.
(b)	If the ball pitches directly into touch from<
drop-out and the opposing team elects to accep
the kick, the line-out shall be formed where the
ball went into touch.
(c)	“pitching directly into touch" means that the
ball, having been kicked, first touches the touch
line or the ground or a person or object ono:
beyond it and has not touched or been touched
in Hight by an opponent or the referee.
(ii) On or beyond the touch line or touch-in-goi
line refers to all areas except the playing area.
(iii)	It is not touch or touch-in-goal when a player
with both feet in the playing area catches the
ball, even though the ball before being caught
has crossed the touch line or touch-in-goal line
Such a player may deflect or tap the ball into the
playing area provided it is not propelled
forward. If a player jumps and catches the ball
his feet must land in the playing area.
B. Line-Out.
iP™line\°f'touch is an imaginary line in the field-of-
whereth^hir^t'0 ‘he ,ouch line ,hrouSh the Pla“
where the ball is to be thrown in.
L63
Law 23
Formation of Line-Out.
(1) A line-out is formed by at least two players from
each team lining up in single lines parallel to the line-of-
touch in readiness for the ball to be thrown in between
them. The team throwing in the ball shall determine the
maximum number of players from either team who so
line up. Such players are those “in the line-out”, unless
excluded below.
NOTE
(iv)	Prior to the beginning of the line-out. any
offence, including wilfully failing to form a line-
out. or to line up at least two players, should be
dealt with as misconduct under Law 26 (3) (h).
(2) Until the ball is thrown in each player in the
line-out must stand at least one metre from the next
player of his team in the line-out and avoid physical
contact with any other player.
NOTE
(v)	The distance of “at least one metre” means
between players who are deemed to be facing
the touch line and standing upright with their
feet together. Players may adopt any stance and
face in any direction.
(3)	The line-out stretches from five metres from the
touch line from which the ball is being thrown into a
position fifteen metres from that touch line.
L64
Law 23
(4)	Any player of either team who is further than
fifteen metres from the touch line when the line-oui
begins is not in the line-out.
(5)	A clear space of 500 millimetres must be left
between the two lines of players.
NOTES
(vi)The distance of 500 millimetres for the clear
space is between the shoulders of the player
when standing upright.
(vii)	If, at a formed line-out, the team throwing in the
ball line up less than the normal number their
opponents must be given a reasonable
opportunity to conform. Opposing players who
are retiring for that purpose must do so directly
and without delay to a line ten metres behind the
line-of-touch. Loiterers must be penalised.
Subject to this, when the line-out is ended
players so retiring may rejoin play, even if the'
have not reached the ten metres line.
Throwing in the Ball
(6)	When the ball is in touch the place at which it
must be thrown in is as follows:—
• when the ball goes into touch from a
penalty kick, free kick, or from a kick
within twenty-two metres of the kickers
L65
Law 23
goal line, at the place where it touched or
crossed the touch line.
o when the ball pitches directly into touch
after having been kicked otherwise than as
stated above, opposite the place from
which the ball was kicked or at the place
where it touched or crossed the touch line
if that place be nearer to the kicker’s goal
line, or
o on all other occasions when the ball is in
touch, at the place where it touched or
crossed the touch line.
In each instance the place is where the ball last crossed
the touch line before being in touch.
(7)	The ball must be thrown in at the line-out by an
opponent of the player whom it last touched, or by whom
it was carried, before being in touch. In the event of
doubt as to which team should throw in the ball, the
attacking team shall do so.
(8)	The ball must be thrown in without delay and
without feint.
(9)	A quick throw in from touch without waiting for
the players to form a line-out is permissible provided the
ball that went into touch is used, it has been handled only
by the players and it is thrown in correctly.
(10)	The ball may be brought into play by a quick
L66
Law 23
throw-in or at a formed line-out. In either events
player must throw in the ball
• at the place indicated, and
• so that it first touches the ground «
touches or is touched by a player at leas
five metres from the touch line along the
line-of-touch, and
• while throwing in the ball, he must not pm
any part of either foot in the field-of-play.
If any of the foregoing is infringed, the opposing teas
shall have the right, at its option, to throw in the ball or to
take a scrummage.
If on the second occasion the ball is not thrown in
correctly a scrummage shall be formed and the ball shall
be put in by the team which threw it in on the first
occasion.
NOTES
(viii)	If a player wilfully prevents the ball from being
thrown in five metres, a penalty kick should lx
awarded.
(ix)	If a player, wilfully throws the ball in not straight
a penalty kick should be awarded.
throw-in the “position of fifteen
annlT F°m touc^" requirement does not
L67
Law 23
Beginning and End of Line-out
(11)	The line-out begins when the ball leaves the
hands of the player throwing it in.
(12)	The line-out ends when
° a ruck or maul is taking place and all feet of
players in the ruck or maul have moved
beyond the line-of-touch, or
o a player carrying the ball leaves the line-
out, or
o the ball has been passed, knocked back or
kicked from the line-out, or
© the ball is thrown beyond a position fifteen
metres from the touch line, or
o the ball becomes unplayable.
NOTES
(xi)	Any movement of a player beyond a position
fifteen metres from the touch line must be solely
for the purpose of catching or jumping to catch
the ball. The player may move in-field in an
attempt to catch the ball only after it leaves the
hand of the player throwing it in.
(xii)	A player acting as scrum-half may not stand or
move beyond a position fifteen metres from the
touch line before the ball has passed that
position unless he moves to anticipate a long
L68
Law 23
throw-in but he may so move only in accordance
with the conditions in the preceding Note (xi).
(xiii)	If a player participating in a line-out hands the
ball to another player who is peeling-off from
the line-out, the line-out ends when the second
player takes the ball.
(xiv)	When the ball has been passed or knocked back
from a line-out, the line-out is ended. Playersin
front of a player of their own team who receives
the ball from the line-out may be off-side but
they should only be penalised under Law 24A if
they play the ball or obstruct an opponent in anj
way.
(xv)	A ruck or maul has not moved from the line-of-
touch unless all the feet of the players in the ruck
or maul have moved beyond that line.
Peeling Off
“Peeling off ' occurs when a player (or players) moves
from his position in the line-out for the purpose of
catching the ball when it has been passed or knocked bad
by another of his team in the line-out.
(13)	When the ball is in touch players who approach
the hne-of-touch must always be presumed to do so for
the purpose of forming a line-out. Except in a peeling off
~nt such players must not leave the line-of-touch,
r the hne-out when formed, until the line-out has
L69
Law 23
ended. A player must not begin to peel off until the ball
has left the hands of the player throwing it in.
Exception:—At a quick throw-in, when a player may
come to the line-of-touch and retire from that position
without penalty.
(14)	In a peeling off movement a player must move
parallel and close to the line-out. He must keep moving
until a ruck or maul is formed and he joins it or the
line-out ends.
Restrictions on Players in Line-out
(15)	Before the ball has been thrown in and has
touched the ground or has touched or been touched by a
player, any player in the line-out must not
(a)	be off-side, or
(b)	push, charge, shoulder or bind with or in any
way hold another player of either team, or
(c)	use any other player as a support to enable him
to jump for the ball, or
(d)	stand within five metres of the touch line or
prevent the ball from being thrown five metres.
(16)	After the ball has touched the ground or touched
or been touched by a player, any player in the line-out
must not
(a)	be off-side, or
(b)	hold, push, shoulder or obstruct an opponent
not holding the ball, or
L70
Law 23
(c)	charge an opponent except in an attempt to
tackle him or to play the ball.
(17)	Except when jumping for the ball or peeling off,
each player in the line-out must remain at least one metre
from the next player of his team until the ball has
touched or has been touched by a player or has touched
the ground.
(18)	Except when jumping for the ball or peeling off, a
clear space of 500 millimetres must be left between the
two lines of players until the ball has touched or has been
touched by a player or has touched the ground.
NOTE
(xvi)	The act of jumping for the ball can include a step
if it is a simple movement in endeavouring to
catch the ball.
(19)	A player in the line-out may move into the space
between the touch line and the five metres mark only
when the ball has been thrown beyond him and, if he
does so, he must not move towards his goal line before
the line-out ends, except in a peeling off movement.
(20) Until the line-out ends, no player may move
beyond a position fifteen metres from the touch W
except as allowed when the ball is thrown beyond that
position in accordance with the Exception following La*
24D(l)(d).
L71
Law 23
NOTE
(xvii)	If the ball in a line-out becomes unplayable,
otherwise than as a result of an infringement for
which a penalty is prescribed, a scrummage
should be ordered.
Restrictions on Players not in Line-out
(21) Players of either team who are not in the line-out
may not advance from behind the line-out and take the
ball from the throw-in except only
o a player at a quick throw-in, or
© a player advancing at a long throw-in, or
© a player “participating in the line-out” (as
defined in Section D of Law 24) who may
run into a gap in the line-out and take the
ball provided he does not charge or
obstruct any player in the line-out.
Penalty:—
(a)	For an infringement of paragraphs (1). (2),
(3), (4), (5), (8), (13), (17), (18) or (19), a
free kick fifteen metres from the touch line
along the line-of-touch.
(b)	For an infringement of paragraphs (14),
(15), (16) or (20), a penalty kick fifteen
metres from the touch line along the line-
of-touch.
L72
Law 23
(c)	For an infringement of paragraph (21) a
penalty kick on the offending team's off.
side line (as defined in Law 24D) opposite
the place of infringement, but not less than
fifteen metres from the touch line.
Place of scrummage: — Any scrummage taken or
ordered under this Law or as the result of any
infringement in a line-out shall be formed fifteen metres
from the touch line along the line-of-touch. Foroff-sidt
at Line-out see Law24D.
NOTE
(xviii) If a player repeatedly infringes, he must be deali
with under Law 26 (2).
LAW 24. OFF-SIDE.
Off-side means that a player is in a position in which hi
is out of the game and is liable to penalty.
In general play the player is in an off-side position
because he is in front of the ball when it has been Iasi
played by another player of his team.
■ a‘^m™aRe, ruck, maul or line-out the playa
liZnrnf beca™e™ re”wins or advances in front of the
sections cfthiffavf' °r 0,he™e infrinSes’ therein
L73
Law 24
A. Off-side in General Play.
(1) A player is in an off-side position if the ball has
been
o kicked, or
• touched, or
o is being carried
by one of his team behind him.
(2) There is no penalty for being in an off-side
position unless:—
(a) the player plays the ball or obstructs an
opponent, or
(b) he approaches or remains within ten metres of
an opponent waiting to play the ball or the place
where the ball pitches.
Where no opponent is waiting to play the ball
but one arrives as the ball pitches, a player in an
off-side position must not obstruct or interfere
with him.
Exceptions:—
(i)	When an off-side player cannot avoid being
touched by the ball or by a player carrying it, he
is “accidently off-side”. Play should be allowed
to continue unless the infringing team obtains an
advantage, in which case a scrummage should be
formed at that place.
(ii)	A player who receives an unintentional throw-
forward is not off-side.
L74
Law 24
(iii)	If because of the speed of the game, an off-side
player finds himself unavoidably within ten
metres of an opponent waiting to play the bailor
the place where the ball pitches, he shall not be
penalised provided he retires without delay and
without interfering with the opponent.
Penalty:— Penalty kick at the place of infringement.
or, at the option of the non-offending team.
a scrummage at the place where the ball was
last played by the offending team. If the
latter place is In-goal, the scrummage shall
be formed five metres from the goal line on
a line through the place.
NOTES
(i)	A penalty for off-side should not be given at
once if the non-offending team gains an
advantage or if it appears likely to gain an
advantage; but if the expected advantage is not
gained, the penalty should in all cases be
awarded even if it is necessary to bring play back
for that purpose to the place of infringement.
(ii)	When a player knocks on and an off-side player
of the same team next plays the ball, a penalty
or off-side should not be awarded unless the
o -side deprives the non-offending team of an
advantage.
L75
Law 24
(iii)	A player can be off-side in his In-goal.
(iv)	If a player hands the ball to another player of his
team in front of him, the second player is off-
side. A scrummage for “accidental off-side”
should be awarded unless it is considered the
player was wilfully off-side in which case a
penalty kick should be awarded.
(v)	The referee should whistle at once if an off-side
player who cannot be placed on-side charges
within ten metres of an opponent waiting to
receive the ball. Delay may prove dangerous to
the latter player.
Where there is no opponent waiting to play
the ball but one arrives as the ball pitches, an
off-side player who is near such opponent must
not obstruct or interfere with him in any way
whatsoever before he is put on-side.
(vi)	If an attacking player kicks the ball which is
misfielded by an opponent and the ball is then
played by another attacking player in an off-side
position within ten metres of the opponent, a
penalty kick should be awarded.
(vii)	If an attacking player kicks the ball which is
charged down by an opponent and another
attacking player within ten metres of the
opponent then plays the ball, play should be
allowed to continue. The opponent was not
L76
Law 24
••waiting to play the bail" and the seco„.
attacking player is therefore on-side under U
25(2).
(viii)	Law 24A (2) (b) also applies where the ball ha
struck a goal-post or cross-bar. Off-side players
must not approach or remain within ten metre
of an opponent waiting to play the ball or the
place where the ball pitches.
B. Off-side at Scrummage.
The term “off-side line" means a line parallel to thegod
lines through the hindmost foot of the player's team imh
scrummage.
While a scrummage is forming or is taking place:—
(1)	A player is off-side if
(a)	he joins it from his opponents’ side, or
(b)	he not being in the scrummage nor the playero!
either team who puts the ball in the scrummage
• fails to retire behind the off-side line or w
his goal line whichever is the nearer, or
• places either foot in front of the off-sid*
line while the ball is in the scrummage.
A player behind the ball may leave a scrummage
provided he retires immediately behind the off-
side line.
If he wishes to rejoin the scrummage, he must a'1
so behind the ball.
L77
Law 24
He may not play the ball as it emerges between
the feet of his front row if he is in front of the
off-side line.
Exception:— The restrictions on leaving the
scrummage in front of the off-side line do
not apply to a player taking part in
“wheeling” a scrummage providing he
immediately plays the ball.
(2) A player is off-side if he, being a player of either
team who puts the ball in the scrummage, remains, or
places either foot, in front of the ball while it is in the
scrummage, or if he is the immediate opponent of the
player putting in the ball, takes up position on the
opposite side of the scrummage in front of the off-side
line.
Penalty:— Penally kick at the place of infringement.
NOTES
(ix)	Players must retire without delay to the
scrummage off-side line when a scrummage is
forming. Loiterers must be penalised.
(x)	Any player of either team may at a particular
scrummage be the player who puts in the ball or
who takes up position as scrum half when his
opponent is putting in the ball; but such player is
at that scrummage the only player of his team
who has the benefit of Law 24B (2).
L78
Law 24
(xi)	If the scrummage has turned or wheeled through
180° the true concept of the scrummage off-side
line cannot be applied. Players not in the
scrummage except the scrum half shall,
however, not proceed beyond the nearer
scrummage off-side line. In these circumstances
any player whose position in the scrummage is
such that his feet represent the hindmost feet in
that particular scrummage, if he has continued
binding throughout the turn or wheel, is
permined to detach himself from the
scrummage provided he immediately picks up
the ball which is at his feet. On his so doing the
scrummage is at an end.
C.	Off-side at Ruck or Maul.
The term “off-side line" means a line parallel to the goal-
lines through the hindmost foot of the player’s team in the
ruck or maul.
(1)	Ruck or Maul otherwise than at line-out.
While a ruck or maul is taking place (including a ruck or
maul which continues after a line-out has ended) a player
is off-side if he:—
W joins it from his opponents’ side, or
(b)	joins it in front of the ball, or
(c)	does not join the ruck or maul but fails to retire
behind the off-side line without delay, or
( ) unbinds from the ruck or leaves the maul and
L79
Law 24
does not immediately either rejoin it behind the
ball or retire behind the off-side line, or
(e) advances beyond the off-side line with either
foot and does not rejoin the ruck or maul.
Penalty:— Penalty kick at place of infringement.
(2)	Ruck or Maul at line-out.
The term “participating in the line-out” has the same
meaning as in Section D of this Law. A player
participating in the line-out is not obliged to join or
remain in the ruck or maul and if he is not in the ruck or
maul he continues to participate in the line-out until it
has ended. While a line-out is in progress and a ruck or
maul takes place, a player is off-side if he:—
(a)	joins the ruck or maul from his opponents side,
or
(b)	joins it in front of the ball, or
(c)	being a player who is participating in the line-out
and is not in the ruck or maul, does not retire
and remain at the off-side line defined in this
Section, or
Penalty:— Penalty kick fifteen metres from the
touch line along the line-of-touch.
(d)	being a player who is not participating in the
line-out, remains or advances with either foot in
front of the off-side line defined in Section D of
this Law.
L80
Law 24
Ppnaltv— Penalty kick on the offending team’s off-
H y’ side line (as defined in Section D of this
Law) opposite the place of infringement
but not less than fifteen metres from the
touch line.
NOTE
(xii)	When the line-out has ended but the ruck or
maul is still taking place, a player is off-side if he
infringes Section (1) of these laws.
D.	Off-side at Line-out.
The term “participating in the line-out” refers
exclusively to the following players:—
• those players who are in the line-out, and
• the player who throws in the ball, and
• his immediate opponent who may have the
option of throwing in the ball, and
• one other player of either team who takes
up position to receive the ball if it is passed
or knocked back from the line-out.
All other players are not participating in the line-out.
The term off-side line” means a line ten metres behind
the line-of-touch and parallel to the goal lines or, if the
%oaJJine be nearer than ten metres to the line-of-touch, the
off-side line” is the goal line.
L81
Law 24
Off-side while participating in line-out
(1)	A participating player is off-side if:—
(a)	before the ball has touched a player or the
ground he wilfully remains or advances with
either foot in front of the line-of-touch, unless
he advances solely in the act of jumping for the
ball, or
(b)	after the ball has touched a player or the ground,
if he is not carrying the ball, he advances with
either foot in front of the ball, unless he is
lawfully tackling or attempting to tackle an
opponent who is participating in the line-out.
Such tackle or attempt to tackle must, however,
start from his side of the ball, or
(c)	in a peeling off movement he fails to keep
moving close to the line-out until a ruck or maul
is formed and he joins it or the line-out ends, or
(d)	before the line-out ends he moves beyond a
position fifteen metres from the touch line.
Exception:— Players of the team throwing in the ball
may move beyond a position of fifteen
metres from the touch line for a long
throw-in to them. They may do so only
when the ball leaves the hand of the
player throwing it in and if they do so
their opponents participating in the line-
out may follow them. If players so move
Law 24
Penalty:—
L82
and the ball is not thrown to or beyond
them they must be penalised for off-side.
Penalty kick fifteen metres from the
touch line along the line-of-touch.
NOTES
(xiii)	Players who advance beyond the off-side line or
who move beyond a position fifteen metres from
the touch line in the expectation of a long throw-
in must be penalised if, for any reason, the ball is
not thrown beyond that position.
(xiv)	A player jumping unsuccessfully for the ball
who crosses the line-of-touch should be given an
opportunity to retire before being penalised.
(xv)	The referee should be strict in dealing with those
players who, while not disputing possession of
the ball in the line-out, advance to an off-side
position whether intentionally or not.
(2)	The player throwing in the ball and his immediate
opponent must:—
(a) remain within five metres of the touch line, or
(b) retire to the off-side line, or
(c)	join the line-out after the ball has been thrown in
five metres, or
(d)	move into position to receive the ball if it is
passed or knocked back from the line-out
L83
Law 24
provided no other player is occupying that
position at that line-out.
NOTE
(xvi)	If a player other than the wing-threequartcr
throws in the ball from touch, the wing-
threequarter must retire to the off-side line, or
join the line-out.
Off-side while not participating in line-out
(3)	A player who is not participating is off-side if
before the line-out has ended he advances or remains
with either foot in front of the off-side line.
Exception:—
Players of the team throwing in the ball
who are not participating in the line-out
may advance for a long throw-in to them
beyond the line-out. They may do so only
when the ball leaves the hand of the
player throwing in the ball and, if they do,
their opponents may advance to meet
them. If players so advance for a long
throw-in to them and the ball is not
thrown to them they must be penalised
for off-side.
NOTE
(xvii)	If a player not participating in the line-out is
off-side, the referee should not whistle
L84
Law 24
immediately if the opposing team is likely to gain
an advantage. He should apply the advantage
law in all such cases.
(Note xii also applies.)
Players returning to “on-side” position
(4)	A player is not obliged, before throwing in the
ball, to wait until players of his team have returned to or
behind the line-out but such players are off-side unless
they return to an on-side position without delay.
Penalty:— Penalty kick on the offending team's off-
side line opposite the place of
infringement, but not less than fifteen
metres from the touch line.
NOTE
(xviii) Where these Laws state a line which determines
the off-side position such line stretches
continuously from touch line to touch line.
LAW 25. ON-SIDE.
/• ^"s^e means ^at a player is in the Game and not
liable to penalty for off-side.
Player made on-side by action of his team
. Q P^yer who is off-side in general play*
inc u mg an off-side player who is within ten metres of
L85
Law 25
an opponent waiting to play the ball or where the ball
pitches and is retiring as required, becomes on-side as a
result of any of the following actions of his team:—
© when the off-side player has retired behind
the player of his team who last kicked,
touched or carried the ball, or
• when one of his team carrying the ball has
run in front of him, or
© when one of his team has run in front of
him after coming from the place or from
behind the place where the ball was
kicked.
In order to put the off-side player on-side,
this other player must be in the playing
area. But he is not debarred from following
up in touch or touch-in-goal.
NOTE
(i) An off-side player who is within ten metres of an
opponent waiting to play the ball or where a ball
pitches, must retire and continue to do so up to
ten metres until he is put on-side. If he does not
do so, he must be penalised.
Player made on-side by action of opposing team
(2)	Any player who is off-side in general play, except
an off-side player within ten metres of an opponent
waiting to play the ball or where the ball pitches.
L86
Law 25
becomes on-side as a result of any of the following
actions:—
• when an opponent carrying the ball has
run five metres, or
• when an opponent kicks or passes the ball,
or
• when an opponent intentionally touches
the ball and does not catch or gather it.
An off-side player within ten metres of an opponent
waiting to play the ball or where the ball pitches, cannot
be put on-side by any action of his opponents. Any other
off-side player in general play is always put on-side when
an opponent plays the ball.
Player retiring at scrummage, ruck, maul or line-out
(3)	A player who is in an off-side position when a
scrummage, ruck, maul or line-out is forming or taking
place and is retiring as required by Law 24 (Off-side)
becomes on-side:—
• when an opponent carrying the ball has
run five metres, or
• when an opponent has kicked the ball.
An off-side player in this situation is not put on-side
when an opponent passes the ball.
NOTES
(ii) The referee should be careful to ensure that no
ene 11 under Law 25 (2) is gained by loiterers
L87
Law 25
who wilfully remain in an off-side position and
thereby prevent opponents from running with,
kicking, passing or otherwise playing the ball.
(lii) When a team has gained quick possession from a
scrummage, ruck, maul or line-out and starts a
passing movement, opponents who are retiring
must not be allowed to interfere with the
movement unless the conditions of Law 25 (3)
exist. Referees should be strict in applying this.
LAW 26. FOUL PLAY.
Foul Play is any action by a player which is contrary to
the letter and spirit of the Game and includes obstruction,
unfair play, misconduct, dangerous play, unsporting
behaviour, retaliation and repeated infringements.
Obstruction
(1) It is illegal for any player:—
(a)	who is running for the ball to charge or push an
opponent running for the ball, except shoulder
to shoulder,
(b)	who is in an off-side position wilfully to run or
stand in front of another player of his team who
is carrying the ball, thereby preventing an
opponent from reaching the latter player,
(c)	who is carrying the ball after it has come out of a
scrummage, ruck, maul or line-out, to attempt
Law 26
L88
to force his way through the players of his team
in front of him,
(d)	who is an outside player in a scrummage or ruck
to prevent an opponent from advancing round
the scrummage or ruck.
Penalty:— Penalty kick at the place of infringement.
A penalty try may be awarded.
NOTES
(i)	There are no circumstances in which a player
carrying the ball can be penalised for
obstruction.
(ii)	The referee should note that:—
(a)	The intention of this Law as regards the
penalties to be imposed for serious forms
of obstruction must be applied.
(b)	If a player is guilty of charging or
obstruction or holding an opponent who is
not carrying the ball or any other form of
foul play, before any other action is taken
the player must at once be cautioned or
sent off. If he offends a second time, the
referee has no alternative to sending him
off. If the offence prevents a try which
probably would otherwise have been
( i ~°rec^’a Pena^y try must be awarded.
c-/ The intention of the International Board is
L89
Law 26
that if the referee has any doubt as to the
balance of probability, he should give the
benefit of the doubt in favour of the non-
offending team and award the penalty try.
Unfair Play, Repeated Infringements
(2) It is illegal for any player:—
(a)	deliberately to play unfairly or wilfully infringe
any Law of the Game,
(b)	wilfully to waste time,
(c)	wilfully to knock or throw the ball from the
playing area into touch, touch-in-goal or over
the dead-ball line.
(d)	to infringe repeatedly any Law of the game.
Penalty:— Penalty kick at place of infringement.
A penalty try may be awarded.
For offences under (2) (c) occurring in
In-goal, Law 14 penalty (e) applies. For
offences under (2) (d) a player may be
cautioned and, if he repeats the offence,
must be ordered off.
Misconduct, Dangerous Play
(3)	It is illegal for any player:—
(a)	to strike an opponent,
(b)	wilfully to hack or kick an opponent or trip him
L90
Law 26
with the foot, or to trample on an opponent
lying on the ground.
(c)	to tackle early, or late or dangerously, including
the action known as a “stiff arm tackle”,
(d)	who is not running for the ball wilfully to charge
or obstruct an opponent who has just kicked the
ball,
(e)	to hold, push, charge, obstruct or grasp an
opponent not holding the ball except in a
scrummage, ruck or maul,
(Except in a scrummage or ruck the dragging
away of a player lying close to the ball is
permitted. Otherwise pulling any part of the
clothing of an opponent is holding.)
(f)	in the front row of a scrummage to form down
some distance from the opponents and rush
against them,
E (g) wilfully to cause a scrummage, ruck or maul to
collapse,
(h) while the ball is out of play to molest, obstruct or
in any way interfere with an opponent or be
guilty of any form of misconduct.
(i)	to commit any misconduct on the playing area
which is prejudicial to the spirit of good
sportmanship.
Penalty. & player guilty of misconduct and
dangerous play shall either be ordered off
L9I
Law 26
or else cautioned that he will be sent off if
he repeats the offence. For a similar
offence after caution, the player must be
sent off.
In addition to a caution or ordering off a
penalty try or a penalty kick shall be
awarded as follows:—
(i) If the offence prevents a try which would
otherwise probably have been scored, a
penalty try shall be awarded.
(ii)	The place for a penalty kick shall be:—
(a)	For offences other than under
paragraphs (d) and (h), at the place of
infringement.
(b)	For an infringement of (d) the non-
offending team shall have the option of
taking the kick at the place of infringement
or where the ball alights, and if the ball
alights
° in touch, the mark is fifteen metres from
the touch line on a line parallel to the goal
lines through the place where it went into
touch, or
• within fifteen metres from the touch line, it
is fifteen metres from the touch line on a
line parallel to the goal lines through the
place where it alighted, or
• in In-goal, touch-in-goal, or over or on the
L92
Law 26
dead-ball line, it is five metres from the
goal line on a line parallel to the touch line
through the place where it crossed the goal
line or fifteen metres from the touch line
whichever is the greater.
When the offence takes place in touch the
“place of infringement” in the optional
penalty award is fifteen metres from the
touch line opposite to where the offence
took place.
If the offence takes place in touch-in-goal
Law 14 Penalty (d) applies.
(c)	For an offence under (h), at any place
where the ball would next have been
brought into play if the offence had not
occurred, or, if that place is on or beyond
the touch line, fifteen metres from that
place, on a line parallel to the goal lines.
(iii)	Foran offence in In-goal, a penalty kick is
to be awarded only for offences under Law
14 Penalty (d) and Law 26 (3) (h).
(iv)	For an offence under Law 26 (3) (h), the
penalty kick is to be taken at whichever is
the place where play would restart, that is
• at the twenty-two metres line (at any point
the non-offending team may select), or
• at the centre of the half-way line, or
L93
Law 26
o if a scrummage five metres from the goal
line would otherwise have been awarded,
at that place fifteen metres from the touch
line on a line five metres from and parallel
to the goal line, whichever is the greater.
(v)	For an offence which occurs outside the
playing area while the ball is still in play
and which is not otherwise covered in the
foregoing, the penally kick shall be
awarded in the playing area fifteen metres
from the touch line and opposite to where
the offence took place,
(vi)	For an offence reported by a Touch-Judge
under Law 6B(6) a penalty kick may be
awarded where the offence occurred or at
the place where play would restart.
NOTES
(iii)	“Playing the man without the ball” and all forms
of dangerous tackling including early, late and
stiff arm “tackling” or attempting to tackle a
player around the neck or head MUST be
punished severely. Players who wilfully resort to
this type of foul play must be sent off the field. A
penalty try must be awarded if the late tackle
prevents a PROBABLE try.
(iv)	It is for the referee to decide what constitutes a
dangerous tackle, having regard to the
Law 26
L94
circumstances, e.g.. the apparent intentions of
the tackler, or the nature of the tackle, or the
defenceless position of the player being tackled
or knocked over, which may be the cause of
serious injury.
(v)	It is for the referee to determine in the
circumstances of the particular case whether the
following actions constitute dangerous play:—
(a)	If a player charges or knocks down an
opponent carrying the ball without any
attempt to grasp him (as in a tackle);
(b)	If a player taps or pulls the foot or feet of |
another player who is jumping in a line-
out; but this is prima facie dangerous play. ,
(vi)	A player shall not “take the law into his own I
hands” nor wilfully do anything that is |
dangerous to an opponent even if the latter is
infringing the Laws.
(vii)	If a player is obstructed after kicking the ball and
the ball strikes a goal post, the optional penalty I
should be awarded where the ball alights after i
bouncing off the post.
(' iii) If a penalty kick has been awarded and, before j
the kick has been taken, the offending team
infringes Law 26 (3) (h), the referee should
L95
Law 26
(a)	caution or send off the player guilty of
misconduct and
(b)	in addition advance the mark for the
penalty kick ten metres, this to cover both
the original infringement and the
misconduct.
(ix)	If a penalty kick is awarded to a team and before
the kick is taken, a player of that team infringes
Law 26 (3) (h), the referee should
(a)	caution or send off the player guilty of
misconduct and
(b)	declare the penalty kick void and
(c)	award a penalty kick against the team last
guilty of misconduct.
(x)	The referee should note that:—
(a) Repeated infringement is a question of fact
and not a question of whether the offender
intended to infringe.
(b) If the same player has to be penalised
repeatedly he should be dealt with under
Law 26 (2) (d).
(c)	Foul play must not be condoned.
(d)	Repeated infringements arise mainly in
connection with Scrummages, Off-side
L96
Law 26
and Line-outs. If a player has been
penalised for infringing one of these Laws
several times in the same match, he should
be cautioned and, if he repeats the
offence, sent off.
(e)	It is a question for the referee whether or
not a series of the same offences by
different players of a team amounts to
repeated infringements. If he considers
that it does, he should give a general
warning to that team and, if the offence is
repeated, he must send the offending
player off the field.
(f)	In deciding the number of offences which
should constitute “repeated infringement”
the referee should always apply a strict
standard in representative and senior
matches. On the third occasion a caution
must be given.
In the case of junior or minor matches
where ignorance of the Laws and lack of
skill may account for many infringements,
a less strict standard may be applied.
(xi)	The International Board and the Unions in
membership with it will fully support referees in
t e strict and uniform enforcement of the Laws
as to repeated infringements.
L97
Law 26
Player Ordered Off.
A player who is ordered off shall take no further part
in the match. When a player is ordered off, the referee
shall, as soon as possible after the match, send to the
Union or other disciplinary body having jurisdiction
over the match a report naming the player and describing
the circumstances which necessitated the ordering off.
Such report shall be considered by the Union or other
disciplinary body having jurisdiction over the match who
shall take such action and inflict such punishment as they
see fit.
When a player is ordered off the playing enclosure
under Law 26 in a match played under the
jurisdiction of the R.F.U. the procedure shall be
as follows:
The referee shall send his report within 48 hours to:
(a) The Constituent Body to which the player’s
Club is allocated.
(b) The R. F. U. when two or more players are
ordered off together for offences arising
from their involvement in the same incident
and the Clubs for which they were playing
are allocated to separate Constituent
Bodies.
(c)	The R.F.U. if the Club for whom the player
was playing is not allocated to a Constituent
Body.
L98
Law 26
(d)	The Union for which the player was
playing in International matches.
Note: In all the above cases the Referee shall send
a copy of his report to his own Referee Society.
(e)	The Constituent Body in whose area the
match was played if he is not a member of a
recognised Referee Society.
The Report will then be dealt with by the R. F.U.
under the powers in that behalf contained in Bye-
Law 13 (g) or by the Constituent Body concerned
under the powers delegated to it under the powers
contained in Bye-Law 13 (c) (see “Delegation of
Powers” in R.F.U. Handbook).
Club secretaries shall report to their Constituent
Bodies, within 4 days, the name and address of any
player of their Club who has been ordered off the
playing enclosure.
In the event of an abandoned match the Referee
should:—
(0 ^dividual culprits under Law
(ii)	abandon the game under Law 6.
(iii)	explain to both Captains the reasons why
he is abandoning it.
L99
Law 27
LAW 27. PENALTY KICK.
A penalty kick is a kick awarded to the non-offending
team as stated in the laws. It may be taken by any player of
the non-offending team and by any form of kick provided
that the kicker, if holding the ball, must propel it out of his
hands or, if the ball is on the ground, he must propel it a
visible distance from the mark. He may keep his hands on
the ball while kicking it.
(1)	The non-offending team has the option of taking
a scrummage at the mark and shall put in the ball.
(2)	When a penalty kick is taken the following shall
apply:—
(a) The kick must be taken without undue delay.
(b) The kick must be taken at or behind the mark on
a line through the mark and the kicker may place
the ball for a place kick. If the place prescribed
by the Laws for the award of a penalty kick is
within five metres of the opponents’ goal line,
the mark for the penalty kick or a scrummage
taken instead of it shall be five metres from the
goal line on a line through that place.
(c)	The kicker may kick the ball in any direction and
he may play the ball again, without any
restriction, except that if he has indicated to the
referee that he intends to attempt a kick at goal
Law 27
L100
or has taken any action indicating such intention
he must not kick the ball in any other way. Any
indication of intention is irrevocable.
(d)	The kicker’s team except the placer for a place
kick must be behind the ball until it has been
kicked.
(e)	The opposing team must run without delay (and
continue to do so while the kick is being taken
and while the ball is being played by the kicker’s
team) to or behind a line parallel to the goal lines
and ten metres from the mark, or to their own
goal line if nearer to the mark. They must there
remain motionless with their hands by their
sides until the kick has been taken.
Retiring players will not be penalised if their
failure to retire ten metres is due to the rapidity
with which the kick has been taken, but they
must not stop retiring and enter the game until
an opponent carrying the ball has run five
metres.
(f)	The opposing team must not prevent the kick or
interfere with the kicker in any way. This applies
to actions such as wilfully carrying, throwing or
kicking the ball away out of reach of the kicker.
Penalty:—
• For an infringement by the kicker’s
team—a scrummage at the mark.
L101
Law 27
° For an infringement by the opposing
team—a penalty kick ten metres in front of
the mark or five metres from the goal line
whichever is the nearer, on a line through
the mark. Any player of the non-offending
team may take the kick.
NOTES
(i)	The kick must be taken with the ball which was
in play unless the referee decides that the ball is
defective.
(ii)	The note (ix) under Law 13 applies also in the
case of a penalty kick.
(iii)	A player taking a penalty kick may not bounce
the ball on his knee. The kick must be made with
the foot or lower leg. If a player fails to kick the
ball, a scrummage should be ordered.
(iv)	In addition to the general provision regarding
waste of time, the kicker is bound to kick
without delay, under penalty.
The instructions in the second paragraph of
note (i) on Law 13 apply also in the case of a
penalty kick.
Even without a caution, if the delay is clearly a
breach of Law the kick should be disallowed and
a scrummage ordered.
L102
Law 27
(v)	The referee must always make up time lost by
any delay in taking the kick, as provided for in
note (ii) under Law 5.
(vi)	If the kicker appears to be about to take a kick at
goal, the referee may ask him to state his
intention.
(vii)	If the kicker is takinga kick at goal, all players of
the opposing team must remain passive from the
time the kicker commences his run until the kick
has been taken.
(viii)	When a penalty kick is taken in In-goal, a
penalty try may be awarded if a defending player
by foul play prevents an opponent from first
grounding the ball.
(ix)	If, from a penalty kick taken in In-goal, the ball
travels into touch-in-goal or over the dead-ball
line, a five metres scrummage should be
ordered, the attacking team to put in the ball.
(x)	If the kicker takes a drop kick and a goal results,
the goal stands even though the kicker has not
indicated to the referee an intention to kick at
goal.
(xi)	If, notwithstanding a prior infringement by the
opposing team, a goal is kicked, the goal should
be awarded instead of a further penalty kick.
(xii)	The referee should not award a further penalty if
L103
Law 27
he is satisfied that the reason for such further
penalty has been deliberately contrived by the
kicker’s team, but should allow play to continue.
LAW 28. FREEKICK.
A free kick is a kick awarded for a fair-catch, or to the
non-offending team as stated in the laws.
A goal shall not be scored by the kicker from a free kick
unless the ball has first been played by another player.
For an infringement it may be taken by any player of the
non-offending team.
It may be taken by any form of kick provided that the
kicker, if holding the ball, must propel it out of his hands
or, if the ball is on the ground, he must propel it a visible
distance from the mark. He may keep his hand on the ball
while kicking it.
(1) The team awarded a free kick has the option of
taking a scrummage at the mark and shall put in the ball.
(2) When a kick is taken, it must be taken without
undue delay.
(3)	The kick must be taken at or behind the mark on
a line through the mark and the kicker may place the ball
fora place kick.
(4)	If the place prescribed by the Laws for the award
of a free kick is within five metres of the opponents goal
L104
Law 28
line, the mark for the free kick, or the scrummage taken
instead of it, shall be five metres from the goal line on a
line through that place.
(5)	The kicker may kick the ball in any direction and
he may play the ball again without restriction.
(6)	The kicker’s team, except a placer for a place
kick, must be behind the ball until it has been kicked.
(7)	The opposing team must not wilfully resort to any
action which may delay the taking of a free kick.
This includes actions such as wilfully carrying, throwing
or kicking the ball away out of reach of the kicker.
(8)	The opposing team must retire without delay to or
behind a line parallel to the goal lines and ten metres
from the mark or to their own goal line if nearer to the
mark. Having so retired, players of the opposing team
may charge with a view to preventing the kick, as soon as
the kicker begins his run or offers to kick.
Retiring players will not be penalised if their failure to
retire ten metres is due to the rapidity with which the
kick has been taken, but they may not stop retiring and
enter the game until an opponent carrying the ball has
run five metres.
(9)	If having charged fairly, players of the opposing
team prevent the kick from being taken it is void.
L105
Law 28
(10)	Neither the kicker nor the placer shall wilfully do
anything which may lead the opposing team to charge
prematurely. If either does so, the charge shall not be
disallowed.
Penalty:—
° For an infringement by the kicker’s team
or for a void kick—a scrummage at the
mark and the opposing team shall put in the
ball.
If the mark is in In-goal, the scrummage
shall be awarded five metres from the goal
line on a line through the mark.
o For an infringement by the opposing
team—a penalty kick ten metres in front of
the mark or five metres from the goal-line
whichever is nearer, on a line through the
mark. Any player of the non-offending
team may take the kick.
NOTES
(i)	The kick must be taken with the ball which was
in play unless the referee decides that the ball is
defective.
(ii)	A player taking a free kick may not bounce the
ball on his knee. The kick must be made with the
foot or lower leg. If a player fails to kick the ba ,
a scrum should be ordered.
L106
Law 28
(iii)	The kicker may not feint to kick and then draw
back. Once he makes any movement to kick, the
opponents may charge.
(iv)	In addition to the general provision regarding
waste of time, the kicker is bound to kick
without delay, under penalty.
(v)	The referee shall see that the opposing players
do not gradually creep up and that they have
both feet behind the ten metres line, otherwise
he shall award a penalty kick in accordance with
the penalty provisions of Law 28.
(vi)	If the kick is taken from behind the goal line, the
ball is in play if an opponent legitimately plays it
before it crosses the goal line, and a try may be
scored.
(vii)	When a free kick is taken in In-goal, a penalty
try may be awarded if a defending player, by
foul play, prevents an opponent from first
grounding the ball.
(viii)	If from a free kick taken in In-goal the ball
travels into touch-in-goal or over the dead-ball
line, a five metres scrummage should be
ordered, the attacking team to put in the ball.
(ix)	If opponents lawfully charge down a free kick in
the playing area, play should be allowed to
continue.
(x)	If a free kick has been awarded in the field-of-
play and the player retires to his In-goal to take
L107 Law 28
the kick and his opponents having lawfully
charged to prevent the kick from being taken, a
scrummage shall be awarded five metres from
the goal line on a line through the mark.
(xi)	If a free kick has been awarded in In-goal and
the opponents having lawfully charged prevent
the kick from being taken, a scrummage shall be
awarded five metres from the goal line on a line
through the mark.
(xii)	The referee should not substitute a penalty kick
for a free kick if he is satisfied that the reason for
such a penalty has been deliberately contrived
by the kicker’s team, but should allow play to
continue.
L108
INDEX TO LAWS OF THE GAME
Refer to Law-
Accidental Off-side........................24 Exception (i)
Advantage................................................8
Attacking Team.............................Definition, 12,14
Ball—Description of.....................................2
Held in In-goal................................14(1)
Illegally Touched................................11
In Touch.........................................23
In Touch-in-goal...................14, (2), (3), 26 (3)
Lying With, On or Near...........................19
Taking Over Own Goal-line .....................14(2)
Touching Referee ................................9
Unplayable .....................14 (1), 22 (3), 23 (11)
Beyond or Behind or In Front.....................Definition
Binding in Scrummage..................................20(6)
in Ruck........................................21 (1)
Charging at Kicks....
Line-Out.......
Opponent.......
Choice of Ends .......
Collapsing of Scrummage
of Ruck.........
Commencement of Match
Corner Post.........
Cross Bar.......
10(5), 13(2), 15 (5), 28
.. .23 B (15), (16), (20)
..............26(1), (2)
....................5(1)
..........20 (14), 26 (3)
...........21 (2), 26 (3)
.............6 A (6), (7)
..............1 and Plan
.............Plan and 11
L109
Dangerous Play at Scrummage
Dead Ball...................
Dead Ball Line .............
Defending Team............
Defending Player ..........
Delays Permitted...........
Illegal................
Dress......................
Drop Kick...................
Drop-Out...................
Duration of Match .........
Refer to Law—
...............20 (3), 26 (3)
..............Definition, 14
.................1, Plan,14
.......Definition, 19,12,23
..........................14
...........................5
13 (2), 20(1), 24 C, 27 (2), 28
...........................4
.....10,11,13,15,16,27,28
...........12 C (2), 14(3), 15
...........................5
Fair Catch (Mark) ....
Field-of-Play ........
Five Metres .........
for Scrummage
for Line-Out...
for Penalty Kick
Fifteen Metres.......
Flag.................
Foul Play ...........
Free Kick............
.....Definition, 16,17 (2), 28
............................1
.........................Plan
......................12D, 14
....................23B(10)
....................27 (2), 28
.........................Plan
....................1 and Plan
...........................26
16,28, in red in Laws 20 and 23
..........................................
................................
......................................
.....................................
T ....12 A (2)
......................................... 24E
Off-side Line at Line-out.....................
LUO
Refer to Law-
Ground .........
Grounding Ball ...
Hacking........
Half-time.......
Half-way Line ....
Holding Opponent
Hooker........
........1 and Plan
.............11,12
............26(3)
..5 (3), 6 A (6), 10
..........Plan,10
. .23 B (16), 26 (2)
,20, Definition, (6)
Illegal Tackles..........................................26(2)
In-goal........1 and Plan, 11,12, 14,16,26 (Penalty (iii)), 28
In-goal Play.............................................9(2)
Try.................................................12
International Matches Time .............................5 (2)
International Rugby Football Board .....................6 (3)
Interval.................................................5 (3)
Jumping-Illegal...................21 (2), 22 (2), 23 B (15)
Kick .....................
Kick-off..................
Knock-on..................
Late Tackle ..............
Line-Out Definition.......
Begins.............
Throwing in the Ball .
Quick throw in......
Peeling off..........
Restriction on Players
.........Definition,?
............5(1), 7,10
....................17
.................26(2)
...................23 B
..............23 B (11)
.23 B (6), (7), (8), (10)
...............23 B (9)
........23 B (14), (17)
. .23 B (15), (16), (17).
(18), (19), (20)
Lin
Off-side at.............
On-side at .............
Ends ...................
Line through the Mark (or Place)
Lying With, on or Near Ball ....
Mark (Fair Catch).............
Maul........................
Method of Scoring.............
Misconduct..................
Mode of Play...........•.____
Refer to Law—
.........24D(1),(2),(3)
..........24 D (4), 25 (3)
...............23B(13)
..............Definition
.....................19
Definition, 16,17 (2), (28)
..........22,24 C, 25 (3)
.....................11
...............26(1), (2)
......................7
National Representative Team.......................3 (1)
No-side.........................................5,6 A (6)
Notes ........................In blue print throughout Laws
Number of Players __....................................3
Obstruction..................................26 (1), (2)
Off-side in general play ...........................24 A
at Scrummage .............................24 B
at Ruck or Maul............................24 C
at Line-out....................................24 D
at Line ........................Definition, 24 B, C, D
On-side .....................................7,12 A (1), 25
Options............10 (2), (3), 15,23B (10), 24D, 26,27,28
Pass.......................................7,18 (4), 25 (2) (3)
Peeling-off......23 Definition B (13), (14), (18), 24 D (1) (c)
Penalties........................In red print throughout Laws
Penalty..................................................27
L112
Refer to Law-
Try ..............................12 A (5), 26,28
Picking up the Ball. .7,12 (3), 17 (3), 18 (3), 20 (16), 21 (2) (c)
Place Kick....................................19,13,27,28
Plan of Field..........................................1
Players—Dress.......................................4,6
Hurt...........................5 (4), 6 A (8) (c), 16
In the Line-out.......23 B Definition (16), (17), (18),
(19), (20)
Leaving Playing Enclosure or Resuming ... .6 A (8) (c)
Misconduct..............................6 A (8), 26
Number of.......................................3
Ordered off.....................................26
Participating in Line-out..........23 B (20), 24 C (2),
24 D, Definition (1)
Reported to the Union...........................26
Touching Referee..................................................9
Playing Enclosure.......................6 A (7), 6 A (8) (c)
Playing time lost........................................5
Props.................................................20
Punt...........................................Definition
Pushing an Opponent.............23 B (15), (19), 26 (1), (3)
Referee—Appointment and Duties....................6 A
Repeated Infringement of Laws.......................26
Replacements.......................................3
Ruck.........................................21,24C
Scoring, Method of...................................11
Scrummage ..............................................................20
Beginning of...............................20(10)
L113
Refer to Law—
Binding in....................................20 (6)
Entering from Opponents’ Side.................24 B, C
Forcing Way Through...........................26 (1) (c)
Off-side and off-side line ...................24 B
Pushed Over Goal Line ........................12 B (3)
Putting Ball into....................20 (7), (10), (11)
Restrictions on Players in....................20 (12)
Start of Match................................6 A (6) (a), 7
Stoppage of Match.............................5,6 A (6) (b)
Stoppage of Play...................................5,6(6)
Striking an Opponent...............................26 (3) (a)
Studs..................................................4 (3)
Tackle..............................................7,18
Tackled Player......................................18
Ten Metres Line at Kick-off................1, Plan, 10 (2)
at Line-out........................24 D, Definition
Throw-forward ......................................17
Time................................................5
Timekeeper......................................6 A (3)
Toss................................................5
Touch...........................................1,6,23 A
Throwing in from .....................6 B, 17,23 B
Throwing into .................................26
Touch-down ................................6,9,12 C, 14
Touch-in-Goal ...............1, Plan, 6 B (4), 14 Definition
Touch Judges—Appointment and Duties.................6 B
Touch Line..... ...........................1, Plan, 23 B
Trial Matches...................................3(1) (a)
Tripping........................................26(3) (fe)
LI 14
Refer to Law-
Try ......................................9,11,12,14,26
Twenty-two Metres Line....................L Plan, 14,15
Unconverted Try................................10,13 (1)
Undue Delay...............................13 (2), 27 (2), 28
Union..........................................Definition
Upright...........................................1» Plan
Waste of Time..................................26 (2) (6)
Whistle...........................................6 A (6)
Wilful Obstruction and Foul Play ..............26 (1), (3)
Collapsing of Scrummage .................20 (16) (d)
Infringements (minor) ...................26 (2) (c)
Knock-on or Throw Forward...................17 (1)
Kicking Out of Scrummage.................20 (14) (c)
Misleading of Opponents.....................13,28
Throw into Touch.........................26 (2) (c)


INTERNATIONAL RUGBY FOOTBALL BOARD
DIRECTIVES
1. March 1981
Dragging Down by Props
The International Board is concerned at an increasing
tendency for props to endeavour to drag down their
opponents by pulling on their jerseys and/or outer arm.
Such practices carry an attendant risk of collapse of the
front row with the possibility of serious injury due to the
manner in which the players concerned are likely to fall.
The present methods of formation of the front row and
requirements for binding are under review by the Board
and will be considered again at its meeting next year. In an
effort to improve the situation certain changes have been
made to Law 20 to be operative in each Union next season.
Meanwhile Member Unions are to direct referees that in
the interests or safety, they must take strict measures to
penalise t h e practices referred to above, or any other
action w h i c h is likely t o c a u s e the scrummage to collapse.
2. March 1981
Prohibition of Single Toe Studs
The attention of Member Unions is also drawn to the
addition to Law 4(3) of the words "The wearing of a single
stud at the toe of a boot is prohibited". This has been done
as a further measure in the interests of safety. Member
Unions are asked to take such steps as they deem necessary
to implement this change and to draw attention to the need
o r filling or blanking to render safe any empty stud hole
resulting from the removal of a stud.
L116
3. 17 August 1981
At the Annual Meeting of the Board in March 1981,
alterations were made t o Law 20.—Scrummage in an
attempt to reduce the incidence of collapsed scrummages
and potential serious injury. The change in law relate solely
to players in the front row of the scrummage, especially the
prop forwards and how they must bind one another.
In particular Law 20(6)(c) states:
"The tight head prop must bind his opposing loose head
proposing rose head prophe top of the lei shoulder of
The Board appreciates that some difficulty is being experienced
in applying the above section of the Law as written, and, in
response to requests for clarification, finds it necessary to issue
the following directive:
It directs all players, coaches and referees to:
1. Interpret Law 20(6)(c), insofar as it relates to binding
by the tight head prop, as follows:
The tight head prop must bind his right arm outside
the left upper arm of his opposing loose head prop
He may grip the jersey of his opposing loose head
prop with his right hand but only to keep himself anc
the scrummage steady and he must not exert a
2. Observe strictly Law 20(14)(b) which states:
"Players in the front rows must not at any time during
the scrummage wilfully adopt any position or wilfully
take any action, by twisting or lowering the body or
by pulling on an opponent's dress, which is likely to 
Case the scrummage to collapse
4. 9th July 1982
In response to a request from the New Zealand Rugby
Football Union, the following ruling was received from the
IRFB (Designated Members) dated 9th July 1982.
Q1. A player carrying the ball is held by an opponent grasping
the tail of his jersey with one hand and goes to the ground
while so held. Does this constitute a tackle?
Q2. What is the definition of "held"? For example, can the
player be
"held" by one leg, or by the jersey or by a
b o o t l a c e ?
(Comment appended to question: It is considered the
question in regard to a bootlace is hypothetical and should
Answer.
Both questions essentially involve the meaning of the word
. T h e r e is, o f c o u r s e , n o d e fi n i t i o n within the Laws of the
Game, but the term has long been in use and has no difference
in meaning now than heretofore. An Oxford Dictionary
definition is "keep fast or grasp", which seems appropriate
here. It has generally been accepted that pulling on any part of
the clothing of an opponent is holding. See Law 26(3)(e).
It is considered that a player is "held" if he is grasped by an
opponent with an arm or arms or hand or hands to any part of
his body, arms or legs or any part of his dress. If, while so held,
he is brought to the ground then he is "tackled",
In the specific question, the relevant facts are that the player
carrying the ball has been grasped and brought to the ground
while so held. Therefore, within the context of Law 18 he is
5. November 1982
Law 20 Scrummage (Forming a Scrummage)
If a team forms a scrummage using only five players, then
L118
after the ball has been put in, but before it emerges, a
second row player may leave that scrummage, provided he
does so in accordance with Law 24B(1)(b).
Law 20 Scrummage (Binding of Players)
In a scrummage the tight head prop may use his outer arm
to pull his opposite prop in an attempt to wheel the scrum
provided:
a ) h e is bound as required by the Law,
(b) he does not grip his opponent's jersey nor exert a
downward pull to do this, and
(c) his action is not considered likely to cause the
scrummage to collapse.
Law 20 Scrummage (Binding of Players)
After the ball has been put into a scrummage but before it
has emerged, it is illegal for players in a front row to break
away and stand up in order to counter a wheel or similar
manoeuvre by the opposing team.
6. March 1983
The attention of all referees is drawn to Law 26(2)(d) and
the Penalty provisions for repeated infringements, which it
is considered are not being applied by referees.
7. March 1984
In a letter dated 21st December 1983 the WRU posed the
following question:
"At a penalty kick at goal a defending player jumps up and
deliberately knocks the ball forward in order to prevent the
ball crossing the bar for a goal.
Is this a deliberate knock-on or a charge down?"
As stated in the question the player's intention was to
prevent a goal being scored. To do this he appears
intentionally to have charged down the kick and not
L119
intentionally to have knocked-on. This conforms to the
situation set out in Law 17(2) second pica dot and the
knock-on
these circumstances should be ruled
unintentional.
Attention of Member Unions is again drawn to the Ruling
dated 25th October 1979 that:
"If the scrum half following the ball around a scrummage,
places his hand or hands on the opposing flanker and
variously uses him to obtain leverage o r assistance or
grasps his jersey he should be penalised for misconduct
under Law 26(3)."
Ruling by Laws Committee dated 31st January 1983
"In accordance with Law 6B(6) a touch judge signals an
incident of foul play, but the play continues up field for
some 50 metres, and nearer to the offending team's goal
line, before the next stoppage occurs. If after consultation
with the touch judge,t h e referee decides to award a
penalty kick, the mark for the kick should be where the
s t o p p a g e o c c u r r e d . T h e
and may be ordered aceplayer should also be cautioned
Directive to Unions with immediate effect
The Board is concerned at the introduction into the Game
of what is generally described as "the flying wedge",
following the award of a penalty kick or a free kick.
This is potentially a very dangerous practice and could
result in serious injury to opposing players.
Consequently, it is to be regarded as dangerous play and is
to be penalised in accordance with the provisions of Law
26(3).
Under 19 and Schoolboy Rugby
The Board approved Member Unions adopting trial
variations to the Laws of the Game in domestic matches for
L120
Under 19 and Schoolboy Rugby in the interests of greater
safety and requests that reports on any such trials be
submitted to it.
8. March 1985
Ruling on Law 26:
In response to a question received, the Committee
recommends that the following ruling, given in 1980 is
applicable to any opposing player b o u n d to the scrum, not
only the flanker as stated. The ruling was in response to a
pecitic question relating t o t h e fl a n k e r
If the scrum half, following the ball r o u n d t h e scrummage
places his hand or hands on the opposing flanker and
variously uses him to obtain leverage or assistance or
grasps his jersey, he should be penalised for misconduct
under Law 26 (3)"
Concussion
In recent years there has been increasing concern amongst
involved medical workers who see the long term effects,
that CONCUSSION is one of the most serious injuries that
can be sustained participants in any sport.
Unfortunately there is often no apparent reason for
concern on an immediate or short term basis.
Resolution 7.6 reflects the concern of the Board's Medical
Advisory Committee that a player who has sustained a
head injury of any sort should receive appropriate advice
and treatment. The Board, supporting this, decided that
the Resolution should be quoted in the Laws Book,
coaches.
following Law 3, to draw it to the attention of officials and
It must be remembered that the purpose of this Resolution
is to protect the player's physical welfare and safety. It is to
ensure that he does not participate while still recovering
rom an injury, the effects of which are not readily
apparent to the lay person or an unqualified coach, or even
to the plaver himself. There is no intention to place
responsibility for this on the referee. It is the responsibility
of coaches and officials.
It is not intended or suggested that a referee should give an
opinion o r m a k e a decision regarding "definite
concussion". The referee's function does not go beyond
Law 3 (5), which was altered to give him authority to
require a player to leave the field if he considered for any
reason it would be harmful for that player to continue
l a y i n g
< e g a r d i n g medical examination after suspected
concussion, a "proper neurological examination" may be
carried out by any Doctor who has appropriate experience,
and this i s not confined to a particular specialty. The
examination should be primarily concerned with clinical
signs and the history given by the patient in response to
specific questions. There is an internationally recognised
assessment of concussion, based on the degree of amnesia.
In the absence of clinical signs or symptoms, a brain scan
will not normally assist in diagnosing concussion or
determining if a player is fit to resume playing. Its use is in
serious complications, where it should already be evident
that the player should not be playing.
In summary, an appropriate clinical examination by a
competent Doctor, of whatever specialty, should normally
be adequate. If such examination reveals no evidence of
concussion, the restriction on playing need not apply.
L122
LAW 27(2)(c). Penalty Kick at Goal
Query: The kicker places the ball for a kick at goal, as he
starts to run the ball falls over; the kicker picks up
the ball and drop kicks, the ball goes between the
osts. Referee gives the g o a l - t h r e e points to
icker's team. Was the referee correct?
Ruling: If, having elected to kick at goal, the ball then fell
over and the kicker changed the type of kick and
proceeded to drop a goal, the kick should stand
Covered by Law 27(2)(c), R.F.U. Handbook
p. L99.)
LAW 6(5) and LAW 26
Query: A "red" player carrying the ball puts a foot into
touch. The touch judge raises his flag; this action
is not seen by the referee and play proceeds for
some distance before the referee has to blow his
whistle for an action by "red" under Law 26. The
referee awards a penalty to "red's" opponents,
only then does he see that the touch judge has his
Ruling: flag raised. Where should the penalty be given?
The penalty should be awarded at the place of the
infringement and not 15m in from the point of
touch where the player has stepped out of the
field of play.
9. September 1982
LAW 20. SCRUMMAGE (ref. Section (4), p. L50
R.F.U. RULINGS
In reply to a query from the Norfolk RFU, it was agreed
that as this law is framed a minimum of five players from
The two
each team are required to form a scrummage.
players at the rear of the scrummage can either pack as two
locks or two flankers and/or as one flanker and one lock.
Thereafter, they may leave the scrummage as per Law
24B (1)(b) and Exception. ref. p. L76.
In clarification of the words "but is not formed within
5 m of the touch line". , it was agreed that all feet in a
scrummage must be beyond the in-field side of the 5 m line.
10. February 1983
The Rugby Football Union have decided to ban forthwith a
ploy commonly known as the "flying wedge", in all School/
Colts rugby.
This is a move which usually takes place close to an
opponents line, and is initiated by a player either tapping
the ball to himself or receiving a short pass, and then
driving towards the goal line with his colleagues binding
onto either side of him, in a V or wedge formation; hence
the term "flying wedge".
Frequently the player is isolated illegally by those of his
own team in front of him (Coaches/Referees please note).
The dangers inherent in this formation are not for those
initiating the m o v e b u t for those trying to stop it.
Such a move or ploy is now banned
