The
LAWS OF THE GAME
OF RUGBY FOOTBALL
with
INSTRUCTIONS AND NOTES
ON THE LAWS
as framed by
The International Rugby Football Board
© International Rugby Football Board
FOR YOUR INFORMATION
1)	Law changes arc indicated by a black line in the margin
2)	The Laws are printed in black
The associated penalties in red
The Noles are in blue.
The “Notes to the Laws” have been placed next to the individual Law
to which the Note pertains.
To avoid confusion the numbers designating each note are in ROMAN
instead of ARABIC numerals.
3)	IRFB Standard Set of Variations to the Laws of the Game at U19
Level are printed in green blocks and are included within the relevant
Law.
RFU Law U19 Interpretations are printed in magenta blocks and are
included within the relevant Law.
REFEREES - It is appreciated that referees will have to adjust their
priorities and approach when they are refereeing al Under 19 level rather
than at senior level. We have every confidence they will achieve what is
asked of them - if they apply the spirit behind these Law interpretations.
4)	IRFB Rulings are printed in grey blocks and are included within the
relevant Law
RFU Rulings are printed in purple blocks and are included within the
relevant Law
5)	c: Qj P.K in the margin means penalty kick for infringement.
Q F.K. in the margin means free kick for infringement.
6)	A complete transcript of the IRFB Rulings and RFU Rulings on the
Laws of the Game can be found in the current RFU Handbook directly
after the Laws Section.
7)	A complete transcript of the IRFB Standard Set of Variations to the
Laws of the Game and IB 7’s Variations, IB U19 Level Variations and
RFU Interpretations at U19 Level can be found in the RFU Handbook
1997/98 directly after the Rulings on the Laws of the Game Section.
DEFINITIONS
The following terms have the meaning assigned to them:
Beyond or Behind or In front of any position implies “with both feet",
except when unsuited to the context.
Binding means grasping firmly another player’s body from the shoulder to
the hips, with the whole arm from hand to shoulder.
Dead means that the ball is for the time being out of play. This occurs when
the referee blows his whistle to indicate a stoppage of play or when an attempt
to convert a try is unsuccessful.
Defending Team means the team in whose half of the ground the stoppage of
play occurs and the opponents of the defending team are referred to as “the
Attacking Team”.
Gender: All references in these Laws to persons involved in die Game shall
be construed as applying to both the masculine and feminine genders.
Kick. A kick is made by propelling the ball with die leg or foot (except the
heel), from the knee to toe inclusive. If the player is holding the ball, he must
propel it out of his hands, or if it is on the ground, he must propel it a visible
distance.
Drop Kick. A drop kick is made by letting the ball fall from the hand (or
hands) to the ground and kicking it at the first rebound as it rises.
Place Kick. A place kick is made by kicking the ball after it has been placed
on the ground for that purpose.
Punt. A punt is made by letting the ball fall from the hand (or hands) and
kicking it before it touches the ground.
Mark. The mark is the place at which a free kick or penalty kick is awarded.
Line Through the Mark (or Place). Except where specifically stated
otherwise, the words “a line through the mark” or “a line dirough the place"
always means a line parallel to the touch line.
Union means the controlling body under whose jurisdiction the match is
played and in the case of an International Match it means the International
Rugby Football Board or a Committee thereof.
Other definitions are included in and have effect as part of the Laws.
TOUCH
ZI
NOTES I indicaics-post with a flag.
Length and breadth of field to be as near to dimensions indicated as possible.
All areas to be rectangular.
The distance from the goal line to the dead ball line should be not less than 10 metres.
where applicable.
— these broken lines indicate 10 metres distance from the halfway line and 5 metres
from the touch-lines.
The lines at the goal lines extend 5 metres into the field of play.
Goal Dimensions:- 3 metres is taken from the ground to the top edge of the crossbar
and 5.60 metres inside to inside of the goalposts.
A minimum height of 1.20 metre above the ground is desirable for cornerposts.
Mark 5 metres from each goal line at six positions viz 5m and 15m from touch-line
and in from of each goal post.
Amend width of pitch to “not exceeding 70 metres".
LAW 1. GROUND.
The field-of-play is the area as shown on the plan, bounded by. but not
including, the goal lines and touch lines.
The playing area is the field-of-play and In-goal. The playing enclosure is
the playing area and a reasonable area surrounding it.
The Plan, including all words and figures therein, is to take effect as part
of these Laws.
The Terms appearing on the Plan are to bear their apparent meaning and
to be deemed part of the definitions as if separately included.
(1)	All lines shown on the plan must be suitably marked out. The touch
lines are in touch. The goal lines are In-goal. The dead-ball line is
not in In-goal. The touch-in-goal lines and comer posts are in
touch-in-goal. The goal posts are to be erected in the goal lines.
The twenty-two metre lines are in the twenty-two metre areas.
(2)	The game must be played on a ground of the area (maximum)
shown on the plan and marked in accordance with the plan. The
surface must be grass-covered or, where this is not available, clay
or sand, provided the surface is not of dangerous hardness.
(3)	Any objection by either team about the ground or the way in which
it is marked out must be made to the referee before the first kick-off.
If teams cannot agree as to the safety of the ground the referee will
decide whether the game may begin. If there is any doubt as to lite
safety of the ground the referee will not allow the game to begin
until the ground has been made safe.
15
LAW 2. BALL.
(1)	The ball when new shall be oval in shape, of four panels and of the
following dimensions:
Length in line 280 to 300 mm.
Circumference (end on) 760 to 790 mm.
Circumference (in width) 580 to 620 mm.
Weight 400 to 440 grams.
NOTE
(i)	The ball, al commencement of play, should have a pressure at sea
level of 9.50 - lOlbs per square inch or 0.67 - 0.70 kilograms per
square centimetre.
(2)	The dimensions of the ball may be reduced only for younger
schoolboys.
(3)	Balls may be specially treated to make them resistant to mud and
easier to grip. The casings need not be of leather.
NOTE
(ii)	It is permissible to have spare balls available during match, but a
team may not gain or attempt to gain an unfair advantage through
their use or by changing them.
LAW3.NUMBER OF PLAYERS ANDT.TE REPLACEMENT AND
SUBSTITUTION OF PLAY ERS
Number of Players in a Team
(1) A Team shall comprise:
(a)no more than fifteen players on the playing area
(b)a number of players for mplacemenl/subsriruuon as authored by
the Laws of the Game.
(2)	When a Union authorises marches ro be played with fewer than fifteen
players per ream, the Laws of the Game shall apply except that there
will be no fewer than three players per team in the scrummage at all
times.
NOTE
(i) Seven-a-side games are covered by the standard set of variations
adopted for this type of game.
(3)	Any objection by either team as regards the number of players in a
team may be made to the referee at any time but objections shall not
affect any score previously obtained.
Nomination of Players for Replacement/Substitution
(4)	For international matches a Union cannot nominate more than six
replacements/substitutes except for Under 21 teams where the
maximum is seven,
For other matches the number of replacements/substitutes is the
responsibility of the Union having jurisdiction over the match provided
they otherwise comply with the Laws of the Game.
Nominated Players and Replacements/Substitutes of a Team
(5)	foHow?3"1 mUSt *nClUde suitably trained/experienced players as
(a) If a Team nominates 21 players, it must have 5 players who can play
m front row positions.
\vhocin'nhv011^1 P'ayers> >1 must have 6 players minimum
for loose h?Trfin 6 TOW‘ P°s*,ion 1135 replacement cover
tor loose head prop, hooker and tight head prop.
17
(c)If a Team nominates more than 22 players it must have 6 players
minimum who can play in the front row so that each position i.e.
loose head prop, hooker, tight head prop is covered by 2 players,
and 3 players minimum who can play in lock positions.
(d)If a Team nominates 19 or 20 players it must have 5 players who can
play in front row positions.
(e)If a Team nominates 16, 17 or 18 players it must have 4 players
who can play in front row positions.
Injured Player and his Replacement
(6)	An injured player should stop playing and be replaced as follows:
(a) On the account of a bleeding or open wound the player must leave
the playing area until such time as the bleeding is controlled and the
wound is covered or dressed: the replacement of the player is
temporary but, if he is unable to resume playing, the replacement
becomes permanent.
(b)On the account of any other type of injury; if the referee is advised
by a doctor or other medically trained person or for any other reason
considers that a player is so injured that it would be harmful for him
to continue playing, the referee shall require the player to leave the
playing area. For this purpose, the referee may also require a player
to leave the field to be examined medically.
(7)	An injured player who has been permanently replaced must NOT
resume playing.
(8)	The replacement of an injured player may be made on the following
advice:
(a) in matches in which a national representative team is playing, by a
medical practitioner only.
(b)in other matches, by medically trained person, or if a medically
trained person is not present, by a request from the team’s captain to
the referee.
(9)	The replacement of the injured player shall be made only when the ball
is dead and with the permission of the referee.Thc referee should not permit
a player to resume until the ball is dead.
Substituted Players
(!0) Up to 2 substitutes of front row players and up to 4 substitutes of other
players may be made for any reason only when the ball is dead and
with the permission of the referee.
(11) Players who have been substituted may not re-enter the match even to
replace an injured player except in the case of a player having a
bleeding or open wound or for an injured front row player if no other
suitably trained replacement is available.
Special Circumstances
(12)	In the event of a front row forward being ordered off. the referee, in the
interests of safety, will confer with the captain of his team to determine
whether another player is suitably trained/experienced to take his
position: if not the captain shall nominate one other forward to leave
the playing area and the referee will permit a substitute front row
forward to replace him This may take place immediately or after
another player has been tried in the position.
When there is no other front row forward available due to a sequence
of players ordered off or injured or both, then the game will continue
with non contestable scrummages which are the same as normal
scrummages expect that;
• there is no contest for the ball
• the team putting in the ball must win it
• neither team is permitted to push
• the formation of both teams must be 3-4-1
■3.4™ “"on °"e P'ay'r Shm-then i,S scr™ma8e be in a
’ M-TSi,™ 0 Pla>'re Shm-,hCn i,S scrumma8c be in a
’MfoS™PlayerS,he" ilsmust be in a
19
1RFB U19 Variation
(13)	Players who have been substituted may replace an injured player.
IRFB Ruling on the U19 Standard Variations - December 1993
If a lock forward is sent off for foul play one of the remaining fourteen
players should be replaced by substitution to ensure a complete suitably
trained front five is left on the field of play.
In International matches no front five substitution may take place unless the
substitute is properly trained to play in the position for which he is required,
Attention is drawn to l.B. Resolution 5.5 which states that ‘71 player who
has suffered definite concussion should not participate in any match or
training session for a period of at least three weeks from the time of the
injury', and then only subject to being cleared by a proper neurological
examination".
20
LAW 3 NUMBER OF PLAYERS
There have been a number of changes to
Football Board changes in November or
Law 3 which were introduced at the begi^f
Domestic Rulings in England. The tablebe?Oi
LAW 3 NUMBER(P
Replacements cSi
International Matches and matches between domestic teams and teams from other countries. Leagues 1 & 2 Pilkington Cup Semi Finals and Final	6 Players in attendance
x Other Domestic Matches only	4 Players in attendance
x*2 See below	6 Players in attendance
Under 21	7 Players in attendance
Under 19	7 Players in attendance
Under 15	7 Players in attendance
7 ^Petiuon regulation - Hf on the firs the front row of the scrums so that uncontc for a temporary blood replacement	occasion a front row player requires to R sted scrums result, his team shall be deenw
and ju"ior k“ cups'c,ubs KwJ'
21
Season 1996/97 and have subsequently changed either through International Rugby
itlines the current situation.
LAYERS (x RFU only)
institutions
6 may be used as replacements OR
2	of the 6 may be used as substitutes for Front Row players
3	of the 6 may be used as substitutes for players behind the Front Row
A combination of replacements or substitutes within the parameters outlined above
4	may be used as replacements OR
2	may be used as substitutes for Front Row players OR
3	may be used as substitutes for players behind the Front Row
A combination of replacements and substitutes within the parameters outlined
above*1
4	may be used as replacements OR
2 may be used as substitutes for Front Row players OR
3 may be used as substitutes for players behind the Front Row
A combination of replacements and substitutes within the parameters outlined above
and so no more than 4 are replaced or substituted in total
7 may be used as replacements of which 4 may be substitutions
2 of the 7 may be used as substitutes for Front Row players OR
3 of the 7 may be used as substitutes for players behind the Front Row
A combination of replacements or substitutes within the parameters outlined above
Up to 7 replacements of which 3 may be substitutions
Any number of replacements or substitutions by mutual agreement x
replaced his team cannot provide a replacement or other player capable of playing in
to have lost the match”. A substituted player cannot return to the field of play except
Hit Competitions, Constituent Body Knockout Competitions, County Championship
22
LAW 4. PLAYERS’ DRESS.
Playm' dress consists of the following items: jerseys. shorts and
undergarments, socks and boots.
(1)	A player may wear
• a mouth guard
• shin guards provided that they have no sharp edges
• soft thin pads of cotton wool, sponge rubber or similar soft
material, provided that they are attached to the body by adhesive
tape and are not sewn into the jersey, shorts or undergarments
• a scrum cap or strips of adhesive tapes as a protection for the ears
or against abrasions from hard ground provided that the scrum cap
is made of soft lightweight un-reinforced fabnc or leather without
additional padding and has no projections
RFU Ruling - June 1992-Amended 1995 and 1996
Domestic matches only:
The Rhino and Gilbert Neoprene scrum caps are the only headgear
| approved by the RFU
• mitts
• bandages or a dressing to cover an open or bleeding wound
sustained during the match.
(2)	A player may not wear
• shoulder pads of the harness type
braces or supports which include any rigid or reinforced material
• protective garments on any part of the body except as in Section
•helmets or head guards except as in Section (1)
• undergarments which include padding
• clothins which has become bloodsta.ned during the match
• dangerous projections such as buckles or rings
NOTE
(i)	A player must not wear any item which might cause injury to him
or any other player.
(3)	Studs of a player’s boots must conform to the British Standard BS
6366:1983. They must be circular, securely fastened to the bools and
of the following dimensions: - Maximum Length (measured from sole) Minimum diameter at base Minimum diameter at top Minimum diameter of integral washer	18 mm. 13 mm. 10 mm. 20 mm.
The wearing of a single stud at the toe of the boot is prohibited.
NOTE
(ii)	The moulded rubber multi-studded sole is acceptable under this
Law.
IRFB Ruling - March 1995
Vulcanised “Rubber Ridged Sole boots" arc now acceptable.
(4)	The referee has power to decide before or during the match that any
part of a player’s dress is dangerous. He must then order the player to
remove the dangerous part and permit him to resume playing in the
match only after it has been removed.
HOWEVER if the referee, or the touch-judge has already indicated to
a player on inspection before the match that an item was inadmissible
under this Law, and the player is then found to be wearing it on the
field-of-play, then the player should be ordered off under Law 26(2)(a).
NOTES
(iii)	If a player requires any form oi protection or support as listed in
Section (2). he should not play in a match.
(iv)	The referee must not permit a team or individual players to leave the
24
playing area in order to change jerseys unless the jersey has become
bloodstained in which case if must be replaced.
LAW 5. TOSS, TIME.
No-side is the end of a match.
(1)	Before a match begins the captains shall toss for the right to kick-off,
or the choice of ends.
(2)	The duration of play in a match shall be such time not exceeding
eighty minutes as shall be directed by the Union or. in the absence of
such direction, as agreed upon by the teams or. if not agreed, as fixed
by the referee. In International matches two periods of forty minutes
each shall be played.
1RFB U19 Variation
Section 2: Add to final sentence:
".... except for Under 19 matches when two periods of thirty-five minutes
each shall be played and no extra time is permitted if this in total then
exceeds seventy minutes”
NOTE
(i)	The term “not exceeding eighty minutes” excludes any extra time
which the Union may direct or authorise to be played in the case of
a drawn match in a knock-out competition.
(3)	Play shall be divided into two halves. At half-time the teams shall
change ends and there shall be an interval of not more than ten minutes.
The duration of the interval shall be decided by the Union or the
recognised body having jurisdiction over the game. During the interval
the teams, the referees and the touch judges may leave the playing
enclosure.
(4)	A period not exceeding one minute shall be allowed for treatment of an
injury to a player or for any other permitted delay. A longer period
may be allowed only if the additional time is required for the removal
of an injured player from the playing area.
Playing time lost as a result of any such permitted delay or of delay
in taking a kick at goal shall be made up in that half of the match in
which the delay occurred, subject to the power vested in the referee to
declare no-side before time has expired.
26
NOTE
tn- The referee must make up lost time through any delay in taking a
kick at goal. This applies whether or not the referee considers the
delay to be ‘ undue delay” on the part of the kicker.
Playing lime lost should begin from -10 seconds after the player has
indicated his intention to kick at goal. The referee must also make
up lime lost through any delay related to Law 6B (6).
LAW 6. REFEREE AND TOUCH JUDGES.
A.	Referee
(1)	There shall be a referee for every match He shall be appointed by or
under the authority of the Union or, in case no such authorised referee has
been appointed, a referee may be mutually agreed upon between the
teams or, failing such agreement, he shall be appointed by the home team.
(2)	If the referee is unable to officiate for the whole period of a match a
replacement shall be appointed either in such manner as may be
directed by the Union, or in the absence of such direction, by the
referee or, if he is unable to do so, by the home team.
(3)	The referee shall keep the time and the score., and he must in every
match apply fairly the Laws of the Game without any variation or
omission, except only when the Union has authorised the application
of an experimental Law approved by the International Board
NOTES
(i) If the referee is in doubt as to the correct time he should consult
either or both of the touch judges. Only if the information given by
them is insufficient may he consult another person.
(ii)	Where the referee allows time for delays the lime must be made up
in the half of the match in which the delay occurs.
(iii)	The referee has power to declare no-side before time has expired if.
in his opinion, the full time cannot for any reason be played or
continuance of play would be dangerous.
(iv)	Where a player is injured, the referee should not allow more than
one minute's delay unless a longer period is necessary to remove the
player, or to give essential treatment on the playing area.
(v)	The referee should not allow time for injury if he has reason to
believe that a player is feigning injury. In such circumstances he
should order the player to be removed immediately from the playing
area and then order play to be resumed forthwith.
(vi)	The referee should, when the ball is dead, allow time for a player to
replace or repair a badly tom jersey or shorts or boots or to re-tie a
boot-lace.
(4)	He must not give any instruction or advice to either team prior to the
match. During the match he must not consult with anyone except only:
(a)either or both touch judges on a point of fact relevant to their duties,
or on matters relating to Law 26 (3), or
(b)in regard to lime.
(5)	During a match the referee is the sole judge of fact and of Law. All his
decisions are binding on the players. He cannot alter a decision unless
he observes that a touch judge‘s flag is raised or before he has received
a report from either or both of his touch judges relating to Section
(4)(a).
(6)	The referee must carry a whistle and must blow it
(a)to indicate the beginning of the match, half-time, resumption of play
after half-time, no-side, a score or a touch-down and
(b)to stop play because of infringement or otherwise as required by the
(bi
(c)
(d)
NOTES
(viij The referee has power to stop the match at any lime by blowin° his
whbtle but he must not do so except on the occasions indicated in
Law 6 A (6) which include the following:
when he orders a scrummage:
when the ball has gone into touch or touch in-goal, or touched
or crossed the dead-ball lines;
when the ball has been grounded in In-goal:
when the ball is unplayable;
hule a second tune when he awards the pcnaltv try or kick:
• en he awards a ptnaj^. kjck or
w hen he allows a fair-catch:
when ihe ball or nlav.r •
'earn ha, ,hmlOTet;|lnedt?^;'|ah“'Ouch’;‘l him ™d OIK
(D
(g)
iiu
29
(i) when a player is injured bui only when (he ball next becomes dead
unless (j) below applies:
(j) when continuation of play would be dangerous, including (he
collapse of a scrummage.
(viii) The referee should whistle for half-time or no-side as soon as time
has expired if the ball be dead or if the ball be in play when the time
has expired, as soon as the bail next becomes dead. If (he ball
becomes dead after time has expired:
(a) as the result of a try the referee shall allow the kick to be
taken and then whistle for half-time or no-side; or if it be
(b) as the result of a fair catch, free kick or penalty kick the referee
shall allow play to proceed until the ball next becomes dead.
If time expires after a scrummage or a line-out has been awarded.
play must be allowed to continue until (he ball next becomes dead.
(7)	During a match no person other than the players, the referee and the
touch judges may be within the playing enclosure or the playing area
unless with the permission of the referee which shall be given only for
a special and temporary purpose.
Play may continue during minor injuries with a medically trained
person being permitted to come onto the playing area to attend the
player or the player going to the touch-line. Continuation of play
during minor injuries is subject to the referee’s permission and to his
authority to stop play at any time.
RFU Ruling - March 1988
The provisions of the second paragraph of Section 7 must be applied in
all matches (with the exception of matches between teams aged Under 19
or below) when a medically trained person is in attendance. While domestic
matches between teams aged Under 19 or below are excluded, in matches
at that level involving teams from other Unions the provisions are to be
applied unless it is the policy of the other Union also to exclude such teams
from the provision of this Law.
Before the match, the referee must ascertain whether a medically trained
person is available and, if he is, shall issue appropriate instructions to him
and to the Team Captains.
"X" »tLror if continuation of piny is iikoly to
result in danger to players.
At haif-L the referee shall allow the coach o. each team on to the
playing area to attend their teams.
RFU Ruling - May 1994
LAW6A(7) third paragraph
This paragraph is not to be applied in domestic matches except tn U19
and Schools Rugby.
NOTES
(ix> If the referee decides to slop play in the terms of Section (7) hut
without an infringement having occurred or without the ball being
dead,he should restart play with a scrummage and the ball shall be put
in by the team last in possession or otherwise by the attacking team.
(x) The referee should, when necessary, but not before he indicates his
permission, allow baggage attendants, doctors or tirst aid personnel
other than as provided in Section (7) to enter the playing enclosure
and playing area.
(8)	(a) All players must respect the authority of the referee and they must
not dispute his decisions They must (except in the case of a kick-
off) stop playing at once when the referee has blown his whistle.
(b)A player must when so requested whether before or during the
match, allow the referee to inspect his dress
(c)	A player must not leave the playing enclosure without the referee’s
permission. If a player retires during a match because of injury or
otherwise, he must not resume playing in that match until the
referee has given his permission.
(d)A player who has an open or bleeding wound must leave the
playing area until such time as the bleeding is controlled and the
wound is covered or dressed. Such a player may be replaced on a
temporary basis but if unable to resume playing the replacement
becomes permanent
IRFB Ruling - December 1993
If the replacement player is sent oil for foul play the player being treated
may not return to die field.
If the temporary replacement is injured another replacement is permitted.
NOTE
(xi) If a player who has retired on account of injury' or other reason
resumes playing without the permission of the referee, the referee
should impose penalties for misconduct if he considers that the
offence was wilful for the purpose of assisting his team or
obstructing the opponents. If the offence was not wilful interference
and if the offending team gains an advantage the referee should order
a scrummage at the place where (he player resumed playing without
permission, and the opposing team shall put in the ball.
0
Penalty:- Infringement by a player is subject to penalty as
misconduct.
B.	Touch Judges.
(1)	There shall be two touch judges for every match Unless touch judges
have been appointed by or under the authority of the Union, it shall be
the responsibility of each team to provide a touch judge.
(2)	A touch judge is under the control of the referee who may instruct him
as to his duties and may over-rule any of his decisions. The referee
may request that an unsatisfactory touch judge be replaced and he has
power to order off and report to the Union a touch judge who in his
opinion is guilty of misconduct.
(3)	Each touch judge shall carry a flag (or other suitable object) to signal
his decisions. There shall be one touch judge on each side of the
ground and he shall remain in touch except when judging a kick at
goal.
(4)	He must hold up his flag when the ball or a player carrying it has gone
into touch and must indicate the place of throw in and which team
is entitled to do so. He must also signal to the referee when the ball
or a player carrying it has gone into touch-in-goal.
12
except
(a)
(b)
(c)
(5)	The touch judge shall lower his flag when the ball has been thrown in
(5)	on the following occasions when he must keep it raised: -
when the player throwing in the ball puts any part of either foot
in the field-of-play;
when the ball has not been thrown in by the team entitled to do
so;
when, at a quick throw-in, the ball that went into touch is not
used or, after going into touch and being made dead the ball has
been touched by anyone other than the player throwing it in.
It is for the referee to decide whether or not the ball has been thrown
in from the correct place.
(6)	In matches in which a national representative team is playing and in
such domestic matches for which a Union gives express permission
and where referees recognised by the Union are appointed as touch
judges, the touch judge shall report incidents of foul play and
misconduct under Law 26(3) to the referee for the match
A touch judge shall signal such an incident to the referee by raising his
flag to a horizontal position pointing directly across the field at a right
angle to the touch line. The touch judge must remain in touch and
continue to carry out his other functions until the next stoppage in play
when the referee shall consult him regarding the incident The referee
may then take whatever action he deems appropriate and any
consequent penalties shall be in accordance with Law 26(3).
NOTE
<X1|) Alter it touch judge has signalled an incident under Law 26(3)
he may enter the field-of-play at the next stoppage to report to
the referee.
innrh * 31 8031 from a or P®na,ly kick >s being taken both
kick n §teS TSt ?SS'St rcferee by signalling the result of the
and shnli 8e S,an^ 3t or behind each of the goal posts
and shail ra.se h.s flag if ball goes over (he crossbar.
LAW 7. MODE OF PLAY.
A match is started by a kick-off, after which any player who is on-side and
provided he does so in accordance with these Laws may at any time.
• catch or pick up the ball and run with it,
• pass, throw or knock the ball to another player,
• kick or otherwise propel the ball,
• tackle, push or shoulder an opponent holding the ball,
• fall on the ball.
• take part in scrummage, ruck, maul or line-out,
• ground the ball in In-goal.
NOTE
(i)	If a player hands the ball to another player of his team without any
propulsion or throwing of the ball, this does constitute a pass.
LAW 8. ADVANTAGE.
The referee shall not whistle for an infringement during play which is
followed by an advantage gained by the non-offending team. An
advantage must be either territorial or such possession of the ball as
constitutes an obvious tactical advantage. A mere opportunity to gain
advantage is not sufficient.
NOTES
in The referee is given a wide discretion as to what constitutes an
advantage and is not limited to a territorial advantage. The referee
is the sole judge of whether an advantage has been gained.
(ii) Neither team may gain an advantage from the following
circumstances:*
la) when the hall or a player carrying it touches the referee (Law
9(1)):
(b)	when the ball emerges from cither end of the tunnel at a
scrummage not having been played (Law 20. note (xix)):
Oti) When any irregularity of play not provided for in the Laws occurs.
a scrummage shall be termed where the irregularity occurred In
r’udShlCh ‘eam shou,d puI in lhe ba,h lhe refcree should -Tplv
LdW / ). ii.
35
LAW 9. BALL OR PLAYER TOUCHING REFEREE
(1)	If the ball or a player carrying it touches the referee in the field-of-
play, play shall continue unless the referee considers either team has
gained an advantage in which case he shall order a scrummage. The
team which last played the ball shall put it in.
(2)	(a) If the ball in a player’s possession or a player carrying it touches the
referee in that player’s In- goal, play shall continue unless the
referee considers an advantage has been gained by that playens
team in which case a touch-down shall be awarded at the place
where the referee was touched.
(b)If the ball in a player’s possession or a player carrying it touches the
referee in his opponents* In-goal play shall continue unless the
referee considers an advantage has been gained by that player’s
team in which case a try shall be awarded at the place where the
referee was touched.
NOTES
(i) If the bail, while in play in In-goal al either end but not held by a
player, touches the referee, a touch judge or a spectator, a touch-
down shall be awarded provided that a touch-down would otherwise
have been obtained or the ball would have gone into louch-in-goal
or on or over the dead-ball line.
(ii) If the ball while in play in In-goal at either end. but not held by a
player, touches the referee, a touch judge or a spectator, a try shall
be awarded at the place provided an attacking player would
otherwise have scored it.
36
LAW 10. KICK-OFF.
Kick-off is (a) o place kick taken from .he centre of the half-way line by
the team which has the right to slarl lhe match or by the opposing team
on the resumption of play after the half-time mterta. or (b a drop kick
taken al or from behind the centre of the half-way line by the defending
team after the opposing side has scored.
The ball must be kicked from the correct place and by the correct form
of kick; otherwise it shall be kicked off again.
(I)
(2)	The ball must reach the opponents’ten metres line, unless first played
by an opponent, otherwise it shall be kicked off again, or a
scrummage formed at the centre,at the opponents’ option. If it reaches
the ten metres line and is then blown back, play shall continue.
(3)	If the ball is kicked directly into touch, the opposing team may accept
the kick, have the ball kicked off again, or have a scrummage
formed at the centre.
(4)	If the ball crosses the opposing team’s goal-line from a kick-off, without
touching or being touched by a player, the opposing team has the option
of grounding the ball, making it dead, or playing on. If the opposing team
grounds the ball or makes it dead or the ball becomes dead by touch-in-
goal or by touching or crossing the dead ball line, they will have the
option of either having a scrummage formed at the centre of the half-way
line, with the put in, or having the other team kick-off again.
(5)	The kicker’s team must be behind the ball when kicked; otherwise a
scrummage shall be formed at the centre.
(6)	The opposing team must stand on or behind the ten metres line. If they
'"front of that line or if they charge before the ball has been kicked,
it shall be kicked off again.
NOTES
• u)
P'Z in Section (4) must be exercised without delay and if a
t en me p a\er alter gathering the ball in-goal, runs with it or
passes it, he has taken the option to play on.
placin'’ thebaM SaW<*USt or an 3PProv'-*d kicking tee is permitted for
37
LAW 11. METHOD OF SCORING.
Try. A try is scored by first grounding the ball in the opponents' In-goal.
A Penalty try shall be awarded if one would probably have been scored but
for foul play by the opposing team.
Goal. A goal is scored by kicking the ball over the opponents' cross-bar
and between the goal posts from the fteld-of-play by any place kick or
drop kick, except a kick-off, drop-out or free-kick, without touching the
ground or any player of the kicker's team.
A goal is scored if the ball has crossed the bar, even though it may have
been blown backwards afterwards, and whether it has touched the cross-bar
or either goal post or not.
A goal is scored if the ball has crossed the bar notwithstanding a prior
offence of the opposing team.
A goal may be awarded if the ball is illegally touched by any player of the
opposing team and if the would otherwise probably have been scored.
The scoring values are as follows: -
A try 5 points
A goal scored after a try 2 points
A goal from a penalty kick 3 points
A dropped goal otherwise obtained but not
from a free kick or after a scrum taken in lieu
of a free kick 3 points
38
LAW 12. TRY AND TOUCH-DOWN.
Grounding the ball is the act of a player who.
(a)	while holding the ball in his hand (or hands) or arm (or arms) brings
the ball in contact with the ground, or
(b)	while the ball is on the ground either:
. places his hand (or hands) or arm (or arms) on it with downward
pressure: or
•falls upon it and the ball is anywhere under the front of his body
from waist to neck inclusive.
Picking up the ball from the ground is nor grounding it.
A.	Try.
(1) A player who is on-side scores a try when:
he carries the ball into his opponents’ In-goal; or the ball is in his
opponents’ In-goal
AND he first grounds it there.
(2)	The scoring of a try includes the following cases: -
(a)	if a player carries, passes, knocks or kicks the ball into his In-
goal and an opponent first grounds it;
(b)	if, at a scrummage or ruck, a team is pushed over its goal
line and before the ball has emerged it is first grounded in In-
goal by an attacking player;
(c)	if the momentum of a player, when tackled, carries him into
his opponents' In-goal and he first there grounds the ball;
(d)	if a player first grounds the ball on his opponents’ goal line or
if the ball is in contact with the ground and a goal post;
(e)	if a tackle occurs in such a position that the tackled player
whilst complying with the Law is able to place the ball on or
over the goal line.
!f>nin*a>r 8.rounds t.he ba" In hls opponents’ In-goal and picks it up
again, a try is scored where it was first grounded.
39
(4) A try may be scored by a player who is in touch or in touch-in-goa!
provided he is not carrying the ball.
B.	Penalty Try.
A penalty try shall be awarded between the posts if but for foul play by
the defending team-
• a try would probably have been scored; or
• it would probably have been scored in a more favourable position
than that where the ball was grounded
C.	Touch-Down.
(1)	A touch-down occurs when a player first grounds the ball in his In-
goal.
(2) After a touch-down play shall be restarted either by a drop-out or a
scrummage.
D.	Scrummage after Grounding In Case of Doubt.
Where there is doubt as to which team first grounded the ball in In-
goal, a scrummage shall be formed five metres from the goal line
opposite the place where the ball was grounded. The attacking team
shall put in the ball.
40
LAW 13. KICK AT GOAL AFTER A TRY.
(1) After a try has been scored, the scoring team has the right to take a
place kick or drop kick at goal, on a line through the place where the
try was scored.
(2) If a kick is taken: -
(a)il must be taken without undue delay;
(b)any player including the kicker may place the ball.
(c)the kicker’s team, except the placer, must be behind the ball when
kicked;
(d)	if the kicker kicks the ball from a placer’s hands without the
ball being on the ground, the kick is void;
(e)	the opposing team must be behind the goal line until the
kicker begins his run or offers to kick when they may charge
or jump with a view to preventing a goal.
(3)	Neither the kicker nor a placer shall wilfully do anything which may
lead the opposing team to charge prematurely. If either does so, the
charge shall not be disallowed.
Penalty:-
• For an infringement by the kicker's team - the kick shall be
disallowed.
For an infringement by the opposing team - the charge shall
be disallowed. If. however, the kick has been taken
successfully, the goal shall stand. If it was unsuccessful, the
ic er may take another kick under the orieinal conditions
without the charge and may change the type of kick.
NOTES
10 llle ev'neral provision regarding waste of time, the
Uker is bound to k.ck without delay, under penalty.
an vAricH T penni.,,ed 10 he unreasonably slow in taking
;.ou . period of one minute between the indication of
41
intention to kick al goal and the actual kick is well inside the zone
ol "undue delay . A player who is unreasonably slow, should be
warned that if he persists in delay, penalties will be applied.
Even without a caution, if the delay is clearly a breach of Law. the
kick should be disallowed and a kick-off ordered.
(ii)	The referee must always make up time lost by any delay in taking
the kick, as is provided for in note (ii) under Law 5.
(iii)	The referee should see that the opposing players do not gradually
creep up and that they have both feet behind the goal line,
otherwise he should disallow the charge.
(iv)	Shouting by the defending team during a kick at goal should be
treated as misconduct and, if no goal is scored, another kick should
be allowed without the charge.
(v)	When another kick is allowed for any reason, all the original
preliminaries may be retaken.
(vi)	If the ball rolls over and away from the line through the place
where the try' was scored and the ball is kicked over the crossbar.
a goal should be awarded.
(vii)	If. after the kicker has commenced his run. the ball rolls o\cr into
touch another kick under the original conditions should not be
allowed.
(viii)	The kick must be taken with the ball which was in play unless the
referee decides that the ball is defective.
(ix)	The use of sand, sawdust or an approved kicking lee is permitted
for placing the ball.
42
LAW 14. IN-GOAL
/„.g(w( is the area bounded by a goal-line, touch-in-goal lines and dead-
Ml line. I, includes the goal-lines and goal posts but excludes touch-,n-
goal lines and dead-ball line.
Touch-in-goal occurs when the ball or player carrying it touches a corner-
post or a touch-in-goal line or the ground or a person or object on or
beyond it. The flag is not part of the corner post.
Five Metres Scrummage
(1) A five metre scrummage is a scrummage formed five metres from the
goal-line opposite the place where the ball became dead in In-goal, but
no closer than five metres from the touch line The attacking team shall
put in the ball.
(2)	If a player carrying the ball in In-goal is so held that he cannot ground
the ball, the ball becomes dead.
NOTE
■ (i) If play similar to a maul takes place in In-goal, Law 14 (2) applies.
(3)	A five metres scrummage shall be formed:
(a) if a defending player heels, kicks, carries, passes or knocks the ball
into his In-goal, and it there becomes dead without an infringement
having occurred, except where:
• a try is scored; or
• he wilfully knocks or throws the ball from the field-of-play into
touch-in-goal or over his dead ball line; or
(b)if a defending player carrying the ball in the field-of-play is forced
into his In-goal and he then touches down: or
(c)if. at a scrummage or ruck a defending team, with the ball in its
possession, is pushed over its goal-line and before the ball has
emerged first grounds it in In-goal.
NOTE
d - id h1/thUC|*'^K °rPcna*,y ,a^vn in In-goal the ball is made
dead b> the defending team before it has crossed the goal-fine, a
43
scrummage shall be awarded to the attacking team five metres from
the goal-line opposite to where it was made dead.
Drop-Out.
(4)	Except where the ball is knocked on or thrown forward in the field of
play or in In-goal, if an attacking player kicks, carries, passes or
charges down the ball from an opponent’s kick and it travels into his
opponents’ In-goal, either directly or having touched a defender
who does not wilfully attempt to stop, catch or kick it, and it is there:
• grounded by a defending player; or
• goes into touch-in-goal or over the dead-ball-linc;
a drop-out shall be awarded.
0
Penalty
(a)A penally try shall be awarded when by foul play in In-goal the
defending team has prevented a try which otherwise would
probably have been scored.
(b)A try shall be disallowed and a penalty kick awarded, if a try would
probably not have been gained but for foul play by the attacking
team.
(c)For foul play in In-goal while the ball is out of play the penalty kick
shall be awarded at the place where play would otherwise have
restarted and, in addition, the player shall either be ordered off or
cautioned dial he will be sent off if he repeats the offence.
(d)For wilfully charging or obstructing in In-goal a player who has just
kicked the ball the penalty shall be:
• a penalty kick in the field-of-play five metres from the goal-
line opposite the place of infringement, or, at
• the option of the non-offending team, a penalty kick where the
ball alights as provided under Law 26 (3) Penalty (ii) (b).
(e)For other infringements in In-goal, the penalty shall be the same as
for a similar infringement in the field-of-play except that the mark
for a penalty kick or free kick shall be in the field-oi-play five
44
metres from the goal line opposite the place of infringement and the
place of any scrummage shall be five metres from the goal-line
opposite the place of infringement but not within five metres of the
touch line.
NOTE
(lii) When the ball has been made dead as provided under Law
15(6) a drop out may be awarded.
45
LAW 15. DROP-OUT.
A drop-ont is a drop kick awarded to the defending team.
(1)	The drop kick must be taken from anywhere on or behind die twenty-
two metres line; otherwise the ball shall be dropped out again.
(2) The drop kick must be taken without delay
f)
Penalty: Penalty kick on the 22 metres line
(3)	The ball must cross the twenty-two metres line, otherwise the
opposing team may have it dropped out again, or have a scrummage
formed al the centre of the twenty-two metres line. If it crosses the
twenty-two metres line and is then blown back, play shall continue.
NOTE
(i) The advantage Law applies where the drop kick docs not reach the
tweniy-two-metrcs line
(4)	If the ball is kicked directly into touch, the opposing team may accept
the kick, have the ball dropped out again, or have a scrummage formed
at the centre of the twenty-two metres line.
(5)	The kicker’s team must be behind the ball when kicked. However,
retiring players of the kicker’s team who are in front of the ball will
not be penalised if their failure to retire is due to the rapidity with
which the kick has been taken but they must not stop retiring and must
not enter the game until they have been made on-side by an action of
their own team as required by Law 25(1).
in
•-W/ Penalty: Scrummage at the centre oi the 22 metres line and the
opposing team shall put in the ball.
(6)	The opposing team must not charge over the twenty-two metres line,
otherwise the ball shall be dropped out again.
(7)	When the ball has been made dead by the attacking team by a kick.
other than an unsuccessful kick at goal, which goes into touch-in-goal
or on or over the dead ball line, the defending team will have the option
of a drop-out or of a scrummage. If a scrummage is chosen, the
46
scrummage will be ordered at the place from where the ball was kicked
but not be less than five metres from the touch-line.
NOTE
(ii) If a player of the opposing team remains beyond or crosses the
twenty-two metres line for the purpose of delaying or interfering
with the player who is about to drop out, a penally under Law
26(3)(i) should be awarded.
47
LAW 16. FAIR-CATCH (MARK)
(a)A player makes a fair-catch when, in his twenty-two metres area or
in his In-goal, he cleanly catches the ball direct from a kick, other
than a kick-off, by one of his opponents and at the same time he
exclaims "Mark ".A fair catch may be obtained even though the ball
on its way touches a goal post or crossbar.
(b)A free kick is awarded for a fair-catch.
(1) The free kick must be taken by the player making the fair catch, unless
he is injured in so doing. If he is unable to take the kick within one
minute a scrummage shall be formed at the mark. His team shall put in
the ball.
(2)	If the mark is in In-goal any resultant scrummage shall be five metres
from the goal line on a line through the mark.
NOTE
(i) If an opponent unfairly charges the catcher in the playing area after
the referee has blown his whistle for a fair catch.a penalty kick shall
be awarded.
48
L W 17. KNOCK-ON OR THROW-FORWARD.
Ahmk.on occurs when ,he Ml travels forw ard towards the direction of
the opponents' dead-ball line after. -
• a player loses possession of it: or
. a player propels or strikes it with his hand or arm. or
• it strikes a player's hand or arm and touches the ground or
another player before it is recovered by the player.
A throw-forward occurs when a player carrying the ball throws or passes it
in the direction of his opponents'dead-ball line. A throw-in from touch is
not a throw forward. If the ball is not thrown or passed forward but it
bounces forward after hitting a player or the ground, it is not a throw-
forward.
NOTE
(i) A pass, throw or knock-on should not be adjudged an in fringe me nt
unless it is dearly so under Law. If there is any doubt, play should
be allowed to proceed.
(1) The knock-on or throw forward must not be intentional
0 Penalty:- Penally kick at the place of infringement or
in accord with Law 14. Penalty (e). A penalty try* may be
awarded.
(2) If the knock-on or throw-forward is unintentional, a scrummage shall
be formed either at the place of infringement or. if it occurs at a line-
out, fifteen metres from the touch line along the line-of-touch unless: -
the ball is knocked on by a player who is in the act of charging down
the kick of an opponent but is not attempting to catch the ball; or
the ball is knocked on one or more times by a player who is in the act
o catching or picking it up or losing possession of it and is recovered
y at player before it has touched the ground or another player.
NOTE
It an attacking player knocks-on or throws forward in the field-
49
of-plaj and the ball travels into In-goal cither directly or after
having touched a defender who does not wilfully attempt to stop.
catch or kick it. and it is there;
(a)	grounded by a player of either team; or
(b)	goes into touch-in-goal or over the dead-ball line, a
scrummage should be awarded al the place of the knock-on or
throw-forward.
50
LAW 18.TACKLE, LYING WITH, ON OR NEAR THE BALL.
A tackle occurs when a player carrying the ball in the field of-play is held
by one or more opponents so that while he is so held he is brought to the
ground or the ball comes into contact with the ground. If the ball carrier
is on one knee, or both knees, or is sitting on the ground, or is on top of
another player who is on the ground, the ball carrier is deemed to have
been brought to the ground.
1RFB Ruling-July 1982
A player is “held" if he is grasped by an opponent with an arm or arms or
hand or hands to any pan of his body, amis or legs or any part of his dress.
(1) (a) A tackled player must immediately pass the ball
or
release the ball
and
get up or move away from the ball.
(b) Any player who tackles an opponent and, in doing so.
goes to ground in the same way as the tackled player,
must immediately,
release the tackled player
and
get up or move away from the tackled player and the ball.
He must not play the ball until he is on his feet.
(c) After a tackle any other player must be on his feet when
he plays the ball.
1RFB Ruling - 1992
The requirement of Law 18 (I) (c) relates to the first player to play the ball
after a tackle. No distance is specified for the ball to be from the tackle but
if the ball has travelled into In-goal there is no requirement for a player who
forces the ball to be on his feet (refer NOTE (v)).
(d) A player who goes to the ground and gathers the ball or
with the ball in his possession but who is not tackled
I
51
must immediately get up on his feel with the ball
or
pass the ball
or
release the ball
and
get up or move away from the ball
(2) It is illegal for any player -
fa) to prevent a tackled player from passing or releasing the
ball, or getting up or moving away after he has passed or
released it;
(b) to pull the ball from a tackled player’s possession or attempt
to pick up the ball before the tackled player has released it;
(c)	while lying on the ground after a tackle to play or
interfere with the ball in any way or to tackle or attempt
to tackle an opponent carrying the ball;
(d)	to wilfully fall on or over a player lying on the ground
with the ball in his possession,
(c)	to wilfully fall on or over players lying on the ground
with the ball between them, or in close proximity; or
RFU U19 Interpretation
A player is assumed to have fallen wilfully unless the referee is absolutely
certain the fall was accidental. When the referee is absolutely certain that
the fall is accidental, play must be stopped and a scrummage awarded.
(f) while lying on the ground in close proximity to the ball
to prevent an opponent from gaining possession of it.
(3)	A player must not fall on or over the ball emerging from a
scrummage or ruck.
0
Penalty:- Penalty kick at the place of infringement.
(4)
(it)
Uii)
A lrv may be scored if the momentum of a player carries him
into his opponent’s In-goal even though he is tackled.
NOTES
The requirement to release the ball allows a player to put the
ball on the ground in any direction or to push it along the
ground (but not in a forward direction), provided the action is
immediate.
It is not a tackle if the ball carrier is lifted by an opponent so
that both his feet are oil the ground.
If a tackled player does not pass or release the ball immediately
and the referee is in doubt as to responsibility for failure to pass
or release it. he should at once order a scrummage.
If a tackle occurs in such a position that the tackled player
whilst complying with the Law. is able to place the ball on or
over the goal line he may do so to obtain a try or a touch-down.
In such circumstances an opposing player may attempt to
prevent the try or touch-down by pulling the bull from the
player in possession, but must not kick rhe ball.
1RFB Ruling - January 1996
The opposing player attempting to prevent the try by pulling die ball from
the player in possession must be on his feet
11 a tackle occurs near the goal line, and the ball, having been
released by the tackled player, goes into the In-goal, any player
of either team may ground the ball and need not be on his feel
in these circumstances.
Danger may arise it a tackled player fails to pass or release or
move away from the ball at once or is prevented from doing so.
In such cases the referee should not delay in awarding a penalty
(vni /Xdvantage shall be played only if it occurs immediately.
RFU U19 Interpretation
NO advantage shall be played under this Law.
fviii) Close proximity means within one metre.
53
LAW 19. LYING WITH, ON OR NEAR THE BALL.
The requirements of this Law are now incorporated into Law 18.
54
LAW 20. SCRUMMAGE
A scrummage. which can lake place only in the field - of-play, is formed
by players from each icon, closing up io readmess to allow the ball to be
put on the ground between them but is not formed wttlun five metres of
the touch line
1RFB U19 Variation
.... or within five metres of the goal line.
The middle player in each front row is the hooker, and the players on either
side of him are the props.
The middle line means an imaginary line on the ground directly beneath the
line formed by the junction of the shoulders of the two front rows.
If the ball in a scrummage is on or over the goal line the scrummage is
ended.
Forming a Scrummage
r
V F.K (1) A team must not wilfully delay the forming of a
scrummage.
■0
F.K. (2) Every scrummage shall be formed at the place of
infnngement or as near thereto as is practicable within
the field-of-play. It must be stationary' with the middle
line parallel to the goal lines until the ball has been put
in.
Before commencing engagement each front row must be
in a crouched position with heads and shoulders no lower
than their hips and so that they arc within one arm’s
length of the opponents' shoulders
In the interests of safely, each front row should engage tn
the sequence of crouch, then pause and only engage on
the call “engage” given by the referee.
55
IRFB Ruling on the U19 Standard Variations - December 1993
Replace the previous paragraph with the following:
In the interests of safely each prop should touch on their opponent’s upper
arm then pause prior to engagement in the sequence: crouch, touch, pause
and engage.
RFU U19 Interpretation
In the interests of safety and where thought to be necessary, referees should
talk the scrum down through the crouch, touch, pause, engage sequence.
NOTES
(i)	To the extent that it is necessary, the scrummage is to be
moved from the place of infringement so that the scrummage is
formed in the field-of-play and the feet of all defending players
in the scrummage are in the field of play.
(ii)	When the place of infringement is within five metres of a touch line
the scrummage is to be formed five metres from that touch line.
IRFB U19 Variation
Replace Note (ii) with the following:
When the place of infringement is within five metres
of a touch line or a goal line the scrummage is to be
formed five metres from that touch line or goal line respectively.
RFU Ruling - September 1982
The words “five metres from that touch line" mean that all feel in the
scrummage must be beyond the in-field side of the five metres line.
(iii)	The referee shall mark the place of engagement with his fool
before the scrummage is formed.
(iv)	A crouched position is the extension ol the normal stance by
bending the knees sufficiently to step into the engagement
C without a charge.
P.K. (3) It is dangerous play for a front row to form down some
56
distance from its opponents and rush against them.
NOTE
(v, The referee should not call the from row s to engage until the
ball is in the hands of the player pulling in the ball and is
available to be pul in immediately. This call is not a command,
but an indication that the front rows may engage when ready.
0 P.K. (4) A maximum of 8 players from each team shall be
required to form a scrummage and the number of these
players shall not be increased while the scrummage is
taking place. These players shall remain bound in the
scrummage until it ends. Each front row of a scrummage
shall have three players in it at all times. The head of a
player in the front row shall not be next to the head of a
player of the same team
1RFB Ruling - November 1982
After the ball has been pul into a scrummage but before it has emerged, it
is illegal for players in a front row to break away and stand up in order to
counter a wheel or similar manoeuvre by the opposing team.
Exception:
(a)	When for any reason the number of players in a team is
reduced to less than fifteen players, the number of
players of each team in the scrummage may be similarly
reduced. Any reduction must not be such that the number
of players for any team in the scrummage is less than
five.
(b)	In the case of non-contested scrummages the provisions
of Law 3(12) shall apply,
IRFB U19 Variation
Replace Section 4 above with the following items (a) to (f)
(a)	In an eight-man scrummage the formation must be 3-4-1
with a single player at the back normally the number 8)
packing between the two locks who must pack with their
57
heads either side of the hookcr.
(b)	Throughout the duration of a scrummage there must be 8
players from each side in the scrummage except when
these numbers arc reduced by.
• Availability
• A player or players ordered off under Law 26
• Injury
(c)	Even allowing for the exception m (b) there must never
be less than 5 players from each team in a scrummage.
(d)	The composition of a scrummage if a team is unable to
field a complete team or maintain a complete team for
any reason shall be:
• If one team is 1 short, then both scrummages must be a
3-4 formation
• If one team is 2 short, then both scrummages must be a
3-2-1 formation
• If one team is 3 short, then both scrummages must be a
3-2 formation.
(c)	However, in respect of the three front row positions and
the two lock positions in the middle row, should a team:
• be unable to provide suitably trained replacements for
an injured player or players
• be unable to field suitably trained players at the
commencement of or during a match because of the
lack of availability of players
• have one or more of the five designated players sent off
under Law 26 AND be unable to replace them with,
suitably trained players from the remaining players, the
referee must order a non-contestable or simulated
scrummage which is a normal scrummage situation
except:
• there is no contest for the ball
58
• the team putting in the ball must win it
• neither team is permitted to push.
IRFB Ruling on the U19 Standard Variations
In representative rugby where a team cannot findI suitable front five
nlavers before the match commences the match shall be forfeited. In all
other ‘friendly’ matches the non-contested scrum may be acceptable.
(f) There shall not be more than 8 players in a scrummage.
<0 Penalty: Free kick al the place of infringement
' " O' f.K. (5) (a) While a scrummage is forming:
• the shoulders of each player in the front row must not
be lower than his hips;
•all players in each front row must adopt a normal
stance;
• both feet must be on the ground and not crossed;
• the hookers must be in a hooking position;
RFU U19 Interpretation
Referees should be especially vigilant to ensure that the hookers are in a
hooking position.
• a hooker’s foot must not be in front of the forward feet
of his props.
RFU U19 Interpretation
Any player at any stage in the scrum who has or causes an opponent to
ave, his shoulders lower than his hip joint must immediately be penalised
by awarding a Free Kick.
(b) While the scrummage is taking place, players in each
front row must have their weight firmly on at least one
foot and be in a position for an effective forward shove
and the shoulders of each player must not be lower than
his hips.
NOTES
(vi)	The restriction on the crossing of the feet of (he players in (he
front rows refers only to the feet of individual players. The feet
of all players in the front rows must be in a position for an
effective forward shove.
(vii)	A hooking position is where a hooker in the scrummage has
both feet on the ground, the weight retained firmly on one foot
and in a position to hook or strike the ball.
(viii)	A flank forward in the second or third row of a scrummage may
pack at an angle provided he is properly bound. If the ball is
emerging from the back of the scrummage and he moves
outwards, thereby preventing an opponent from advancing
around the scrummage, a penally kick should be awarded.
(ix)	In the event of a scrummage collapsing the referee should
whistle immediately so that players do not continue to push.
The referee should also whistle immediately if any player in the
scrummage is lifted off his feel or is forced upwards oul of the
scrummage.
(x)	The scrummage is ended
if the ball in the scrummage is on or over the goal-line
when the ball emerges from the scrummage
if. in the scrummage, a player whose feet arc the “hindmost" leet in
that scrummage, has (he ball at this feet, unbinds and picks up the
ball.
Binding of Players
ft
V P K. (6) (a) The players of each front row shall bind firmly and
continuously while the scrummage is forming,
while the ball is being put in and while it is in the
scrummage.
>0
V PK (b) The hooker may bind either over or under the arms
of his props but. in cither case, he must bind firmly
around their bodies al or below the level of the
armpits. The props must bind the hooker similarly.
The hooker must not be supported so that he is not
carrying any weight on either foot
1RFB Ruling - January 1996
The hooker must bind in the same manner with each prop.
C P.K. (c) The outside (loose head) prop must either (i) bind his
opposing (light head) prop with his left arm inside the right
arm of his opponent, or (ii) place his left hand or forearm on
his left thigh. The tight-head prop must bind with his right
arm outside the left upper arm of his opposing loose-head
prop. He may grip the jersey of his opposing loose-head
prop with his right hand but only to keep himself and tire
scrummage steady and he must not exert a downward pull.
ft
V p.K (d) All players in a scrummage, other than those in a front
row. must bind with at least one arm and hand around tire
body of another player of the same team. The player
whose feet are the ihindmostT feet in the scrummage must
bind with at least one arm onto one of his locks.
.ft
F.K (e) No outside player other than a prop may hold an
opponent with his outer arm.
Putting the Ball Into the Scrummage
(7) When an infringement occurs the team not responsible shall put
in the ball. In all other circumstances, unless otherwise
provided, the ball shall be put in by the team which was moving
forward prior to the stoppage or, if neither team was moving
forward, by the attacking team.
61
NOTE
(xi)	It is permissible for lhe outside (loose-head) prop io alter his
binding with his left arm. within the provisions of Law
20(6)(c), at any time during a scrummage.
0
V' F.K. (8) The ball shall be put in without delay as soon as lhe two
front rows have closed together. A team must put m the
ball when ordered to do so and on the side first chosen
NOTES
(xii)	In the interests ol safety, the referee has authority to permit
delay in pulling in the ball if a player in the front row has not
succeeded in getting his head down in the scrummage but
otherwise he should ensure that there is no delay.
(xiii)	A free kick should be awarded if the referee is satisfied that lhe
delay by the team in pulling the ball in is deliberate and
prejudices the other team.
0
'V F.K (9) The player putting in lhe ball shall:
(a) stand one metre from die scrummage on the middle
line between the two front rows;
(b) hold lhe ball with both hands over the middle line
between die two front rows at a level midway
between his knee and ankle;
(c) from that position put in die ball:
• without any delay or without feint or
backward movement, i.c. with a single
forward movement; and
• at a quick speed straight along lhe middle line
so that it first touches the ground immediately
beyond die width of die nearer prop’s shoulders.
(10) Play in the scrummage begins when the ball leaves the hands of
the player putting it in.
(ID If the ball is put in and it comes out at either end of the tunnel,
it shall be put in again, unless a free kick or penalty kick has
been awarded. If the ball comes out otherwise than at either
end of the tunnel and if a penalty kick has not been awarded
play shall proceed.
NOTE
(xiv> Advantage applies as soon as the ball has been put into the
scrummage and played.
Restrictions on Front Row Players
C' F.K (12) All front row players must place their feet so as to allow
a clear tunnel. A player must not prevent the ball being
put into the scrummage, or from touching the ground at
the required place.
r
■V F.K. (13) No front row player may raise or advance a fool until die ball
has left the hands of the player putting it into the scrummage,
NOTE
(xv j Until any foot is permitted to be raised or advanced, (hat foot
must be kepi in the normal position.
(14) When the ball has touched the ground, any foot of any player
in either front row may be used in an attempt to gain possession
of the ball subject to the following: •
players in the front rows must not at any time during die
scrummage, wilfully:-
P.K. (a) raise both feet off the ground at the same lime; or
P.K. (b) adopt a position or take any action, by twisting or
lowering the body or by pulling on an opponent's dress,
which is likely to cause the scrummage to collapse; or
63
RFU U19 Interpretation
In the event of one front row being stronger than the other, referees
should be mindful to instruct the stronger pack to reduce the power of
their shove sufficiently to ensure the opposing front row arc able to stay
on their feet.
f)
'V P.K. (c) lift an opponent oft his feel or force him upwards out of
the scrummage; or
F.K.(d) kick the ball out of the tunnel in the direction from which
it is pul in.
NOTES
(xvi) The prohibition against a player in the front row raising both
feet off the ground al the same time or striking at the ball with
both feel applies during the whole scrummage and not merely
to the period while the ball is being pul in.
(win Referees must be strict in applying penalties for wilfully
kicking out. Repeated kicking out must be treated as wilful.
(xviii)When the referee orders the ball to be put in again it must be
pul in by a player of the same team dial was first entitled to do
(xixi If the ball is about to pass straight through the tunnel and a far
prop advances a foot so that the ball passes behind the loot, the
ball must be put in again unless it has been lawfully played (i.e.
touched) by a player in (he front row.
Restrictions on Players
f)
'fc-/ F.K. (15) Any player who is not in either front row must not play
the ball while it is in the tunnel.
64
(16) A player must not:-
C EK. (a) return the ball into the scrummage: or
C RK. (b) handle the ball in the scrummage except in the act of
obtaining a "push over” try or touchdown; or
C
V P.K. (c) pick up the ball in the scrummage by hand or legs; or
'ft
V p.K. (d) wilfully collapse the scrummage; or
c
V PK. (e) wilfully fall or kneel in the scrummage; or
0
V RK. (f) attempt to gain possession of the ball in the scrummage
with any part of the body
except the foot or lower leg.
NOTE
(xx) Referees must be strict in penalising for the wilful collapsing of
the scrummage as staled under Law 20(16)(d) and Law
26(3)(h).
FK. (17)(a) The player putting in the ball and his immediate
opponent must not kick die ball while it is in the
scrummage.
.0
F.K. (b) Neither of the players referred to in (a) should take
any action while the ball is m the scrummage to
convey to the opponents that the ball is out of the
scrummage.
65
1RFB Ruling - October 1979, refined March 1985
[f the scrum half following the ball around a scrummage, places his hand or
hands on any opposing player and variously uses him to obtain leverage or
assistance or grasps his jersey, he should be penalised for misconduct under
Law 26(3).
(18) A scrummage must not be wheeled beyond a position where
the middle line becomes parallel to the touch-line The
scrummage will be reformed at the site of the stoppage, the
ball to be put in by the side that has gained possession or
otherwise by the same team.
1RFB U19 Variation
Replace Section 18 above with a Section 18 as follows;
(18) A Scrummage must not be wilfully wheeled.
c
Penalty:- Penally kick at the place of infringement
NOTE
(xxi) If a player repeatedly infringes he must be dealt with under
Law 26(2).
IRFB U19 Variation
Arid as a Note (xxii) I he referee should stop play it the unintentional
wheel reaches 45 degrees. If it is wilful he will
award a penalty kick, but if n is unintentional
the scrummage will be reformed at the site of
stoppage.
c
Penalty, (a) For an infringement of paragraphs (1). (2), (5).
(6)(e).(8). (9). (12). (13). (14) (d). (15). (16) (a)
and (f) and( 17) (a) and (b) .a free kick at the place
of infringement
(b) For an infringement of paragraphs (3). (4). (6) (a)
(b) (c) and (d). (14) (a)(b) and (c) .or (16)(b)(c)(d)
and(e), a penalty kick at (he place of infringement.
66
IRFB U19 Variation
(19) Release of the ball
It is illegal to push the opposing scrummage more than 1.5
metres from the original line towards either goal-line. A player
must not hold the ball wilfully in the scrummage once control
is established at the base of the scrummage.
c
■ -w Penalty:- Free Kick at the place of infringement.
For Off-side at Scrummage see Law 24B.
67
LAW 21. RUCK.
A ruck which can take place only in rhe field-of play, is formed when the
ball is on the ground and one or more players from each team are on their
feet and in physical contact, closing around the ball between them.
Rucking is the act of a player who. in a ruck, is using his feet to retrieve or
retain the ball without contravening Law 26,
If the ball in a ruck is on or over the goal line the ruck is ended.
(1)	A player joining a ruck must have his head and shoulders no
lower than his hips. He must bind with at least one arm around
the body of a player of his team in the ruck.
0
■-X/ Penalty:- Free kick at the place of infringement.
RFU U19 Interpretation
Rucks may move forward provided that the players in the ruck arc on their
feet.
RFU U19 Interpretation
Any player at any stage in the. nick who has or causes an opponent to have,
his shoulders lower than his hip joint must immediately be penalised by
awarding a Free Kick.
NOTE
(i)	The placing of a hand on another player is not binding.
Binding involves the whole arm. from hand to shoulder
(2)	A player must not: -
0
F.K. (a) return the ball into the ruck;
f)
vz F.K. (b) take any action while the ball is in the ruck to convey to
the opponents that the ball is out of the ruck
0
" Penalty:- Free kick at the place of infringement
68
V P.K.(c) handle the ball in (he ruck except in the act of securing a
tr>’ or touch-down; or
C/ PK. (d) pick up the ball in the ruck by hand or legs, or
C p.K (e) wilfully collapse the ruck; or
RFU U19 Interpretation:
Referees should be particularly vigilant of any attempt of the team not in
possession to collapse the ruck.
r
V P.K.(f) jump on top of other players in the ruck: or
0
V p.K. (2) wilfully fall or kneel in the ruck, or
ft
V p.K. (h) while lying on the ground interfere in any way with the
ball in or emerging from the ruck. He must do his best to
roll away from it.
ft
V Penalty:- For (c) to (h) a penalty kick at the place of infringement.
NOTE
(ii)	Players’ safety is of primary importance and players should
nick lor the ball and not the players on the ground. Players
rucking for the ball should attempt to step over other players
lying on the ground and should not intentionally step on them.
Players must ruck in close proximity to the ball.
(3)	When the ball in the ruck becomes unplayable a scrummage
shall be ordered and the ball put in by the team moving forward
immediately prior to the stoppage. When neither team was
moving forward or when the referee is unable to determine
69
which team was moving forward, the ball shall be put in by the
team moving forward immediately before the formation of the
ruck and if no team was moving forward by the attacking team.
NOTE
(iii)	Before whistling for a scrummage the referee should allow a
reasonable lime for the bail io emerge from (he ruck
particularly if either (earn is moving furward. If the nick
becomes stationary or in the opinion oi the referee the ball will
probably not emerge from (he nick without delay, he should
order a scrummage.
For Off-side at Ruck see Law 24C.
70
LAW 22. MAUL
A maul, which am take place only in the fieldof-play, is formed by one or
more players from each team on their feet and in physical contact closing
round a player who is in possession of the ball.
A maul ends when the ball is on the ground or the ball or a player carrying
it emerges from the maul or when a scrummage is ordered.
If the ball in a maul is on or over the goal line the maul is ended.
1RFB Ruling - December 1993
It is legal to hold an opponent in a maul. A player is permitted to leave a
maul so that, in some circumstances, it is no longer a maul.
(1)	A player joining a maul must have his head and shoulders no
lower than his hips.
( 0
V Penalty:- Free kick at the place ol infringement.
RFU U19 Interpretation
Mauls may move forward provided that the players in the maul are on their
feet.
RFU U19 Interpretation
Any player at any stage in the maul who has or causes an opponent to have,
his shoulders lower than his hip joint must immediately be penalised by
awarding a Free Kick.
(2)	A player must not -
(a)	jump on top of players in a maul;
(b)	wilfully collapse a maul;
RFU UI9 Interpretation.
particular|y vi8ilanl of any attempt of the team not in
possession to collapse the maul.
(c)	attempt to drag an opponent out of a maul
Penalty: Penalty kick at the place of infringement.
71
(d)	take any action while the ball is in the maul to convey to
the opponents that the ball is out of the maul.
- vz Penalty: Free kick at the place of infringement
(3)	A player is not in physical contact unless he is caught in or
bound to the maul and not merely alongside it.
(4)	(a) When a maul remains stationary or slops moving
forward or the ball in a maul becomes unplayable a
scrummage shall be ordered and the ball shall be put in
by the team NOT in possession at the commencement of
the maul, except where the referee is unable to
determine which team was in possession then the ball
shall be put in by the team which was moving forward
prior to the stoppage or. if neither team was moving
forward, by the attacking team.
(b)	If a player catches the ball direct from a kick by an
opponent other than from a kick-off or from a drop-out,
and is immediately held by an opponent so that a maul
ensues and the maul remains stationary or stops moving
forward or the ball becomes unplayable his team shall put
in the ball at the ensuing scrummage.
IRFB Ruling - December 1993
A player catches the ball direct from a kick by an opponent who is
immediately held but no maul ensues and the ball becomes unplayable; The
put-in at the resulting scrummage will be in accordance with Law 20(7).
A maul is not stationary if it is moving in any direction.
“Immediately" means as soon as the player's feet are on the ground after
catching the ball.
A player catches the ball direct from a kick by an opponent who is
immediately held so that a maul ensues and the maul moves into in-goal.
The attacking team will have the put-in - to the resulting five metre
scrummage if:
(i)	The ball becomes unplayable (Law 14(2))
(ii)	The ball is touched down (Law 14(3)(b)).
72
1RFB Ruling - March 1995
When the bail becomes unplayable as a result of a collapsed maul, the put-
into a resulting scrummage should be awarded under Law 22 (4).
NOTES
(i)	Direct from a kick means the ball has been caught without
having bounced off the playing surface or without having
touched or been touched in Hight by another player.
ob When the maul remains stationary or stops moving forward but
the ball is being moved and can be seen by the referee he
should allow a reasonable time for the ball to emerge but not
permit the maul to start moving again, prolonged wrestling for
the ball and should order a scrummage.
RFU U19 Interpretation;
Charging in an unsafe manner is considered dangerous, and should be
penalised under Law 26(3)(h).
Particular attention should be paid to the correct body position of players
joining the maul (i.e. head and shoulders must not be below the hips).
The referee should take note of the defenceless position of any players in
the maul. He should pay close attention to the method of entry into (he
maul to ensure that defenceless players are not charged unfairly.
Players who fail to observe this requirement should be penalised under Law
26(3)(h).
(iii)	If the ball earner in a maul goes to the ground, including being
on one knee or both knees or is sitting on the ground, a
scrummage is to be ordered unless the ball is immediately
available for the continuation of play.
For Off-side at Maul see Law 24C.
73
LAW 23. TOUCH AND LINE-OUT.
A. Touch
(1) The ball is in touch:
when it is not being carried by a player and it touches a touch
line or the ground or a person or object on or beyond it, or when
it is carried by a player and it or the player carrying it touches
a touch line or the ground beyond it
(2)	If the ball is not in touch and has not crossed the plane of the
touch line, a player who is in touch may kick the ball or propel
it with his hand but not hold it.
(3)	The ball is deemed to have been kicked directly into touch if, from a
kick, it is in touch without having pitched on the playing area or without
having touched or been touched tn flight by a player or the referee.
NOTES
(i) (a) If the bail is kicked directly into touch from a kick-off
and the opposing team elects to accept the kick, the line-
out shall be formed:
(i) at the half-way line: or
(ii)	where the ball went into touch if the place be
nearer to the kicker's goal-line.
(b) If the ball is kicked directly into touch from a drop- out
and the opposing team elects to accept (he kick, the line-
out shall be formed where the ball went into touch.
(ii) On or beyond the touch line or touch-in-goal line refers to al)
areas except the playing area.
(iii)	It is not touch or touch-in-goal when a player with both teet in
the playing area catches the ball, even though the ball before
being caught has crossed the touch line or touch-in-goal line.
Such a player may deflect or tap the ball into the playing area
provided it is not propelled forward. If a player jumps and
catches the ball his feet must land in the playing area.
74
B. Line-out
The line-of-touch is an imaginary line in the fiekl-of-play at right angles to
the touch line through the place where the ball is thrown in.
Formation of Line-out.
C F.K. (1) A line-out is formed by at least two players from each
team lining up in single lines parallel to the line-of-touch in
readiness for the ball to be thrown in between them The team
throwing in the ball shall determine the maximum number of
players from either team who so line up. Such players are
those "in the line-out'*, unless excluded below.
NOTE
(iv)	Prior to the beginning of the line-out. a free kick should be
awarded for offences in forming the line-out, including wilfully
failing to form a line-out or to line up al least two players.
C F.K (2) Each team must line up half a metre on its side of the
line-of-touch, so as to leave a clear space of one metre
between the two lines of players.
NOTE
(v)	The distance of one metre for the clear space is between the
shoulders of the players when standing upright.
0 F.K. (3) The line-out stretches from five metres from the touch
line from which the ball is being thrown in to a position
fifteen metres from that touch line.
F.K. (4) Any player of either team who is further than fifteen
metres from the touch line when the line-out begins is not in
the line-out.
NOTE
(vi)	If, at a formed line-out, the team throwing in the ball line up less
75
than the normal number, their opponents must be given a
reasonable opportunity to conform. Opposing players who are
retiring for that purpose must do so directly and without delay
to a line ten metres behind the line-of-touch. Loiterers must be
penalised. Subject to this, when the line-out is ended players so
retiring may rejoin play, even if they have not reached the ten
metres line.
Throwing in the Ball
(5)	When the ball is m touch the place at which it must be thrown
in is as follows: -
(a) When the ball goes into touch from a penalty kick; or
from a kick including a free kick awarded within twenty-
two metres of the kicker’s goal line, at die place where
it touched or crossed the touch line, except as otherwise
provided.
(b) When the kicker has received the ball outside his twenty-
two metres line and retreated behind that line before
kicking, and on all other occasions when the ball is kicked
directly into touch, after having been kicked otherwise
than as stated in (a), opposite the place from which the ball
was kicked or at the place where it touched or crossed the
touch line if dial place be nearer to the kicker’s goal-line.
IRFB Ruling - 1992
If a player has received the ball outside his 22 metre line then throws, knocks
or kicks the ball back over that line, retrieves it himself and dien kicks for
touch, his team cannot gain ground if the ball pitches directly into touch.
(c)	’ When a quick throw-in is taken, from any point along the
touch line between where the ball went into touch and the
goal-line of the team throwing in the ball.
(d)	Otherwise when the ball is in touch, at the place where
the ball touched or crossed the touch line.
(6)	(a) When kicked into touch from a penalty kick, the ball will
be thrown in at the line-out by the team which kicked the
ball into touch.
76
(b) Otherwise the ball is to be thrown in by an opponent of
the player whom it last touched, or by whom it was
carried before being in touch.
(c) In the event of doubt as to which team should throw in
the ball, the attacking team shall do so.
(7)	The ball may be brought into play at a formed line-out. or by a quick
throw-in which can only be taken before die line-out has formed.
If a quick throw-in occurs after the line-oul has formed, it is
void and the ball is brought into play at the formed line-out by
(he same team.
(8)	At a formed line-out the player throwing in the ball must:
not put any part of either foot in the field of play.
throw the ball in at the place indicated m (5) so that it first touches
the ground or touches or is touched by a player at least five metres
from the touch-line along the line-of-touch; otherwise the
opposing team shall have the right, as its option, to throw in the
ball or to take a scrummage fifteen metres from the touch line.
(9)	(a) At a quick throw-in. the ball that went into touch must be
used and, after going into touch, and being made dead.
unless it has been touched only by the player throwing it
in. the ball shall be thrown in at the place indicated in
(5) by the same team.
JRFB Ruling - December 1993
11 a player currying the ball is forced into touch there can be a quick throw-
in by the opposition.
(b) At a quick thrown-in, the ball must be thrown straight
along the linc-of-touch so that it first touches the ground
or touches or is touched by a playcr at least five metres
from the touch-line along the line-of -touch; otherwise
the opposing team shall have the right, at its option, to
throw in the ball or to take a scrummage fifteen metres
from the touch line at the place where the quick thrown-
in occurred.
77
0
V EK (c) At a quick throw-in a player must not prevent the ball
from being thrown five metres.
(10)	If, on the second occasion, the ball is not thrown incorrectly, a
scrummage shall be formed and the ball shall be put in by the
team which threw it in on the first occasion
NOTE
(vii)	If a player wilfully or repeatedly throws the ball in not straight,
a penalty kick should be awarded. If at a formed line-out a
player delays or feints to throw the ball m a free kick should be
awarded.
Beginning and end of Line-out
(11)	The line-out begins when the ball leaves the hands of the player
throwing it in.
(12)	The line-out ends when:
• a ruck or maul is taking place and all feel of players in the
ruck or maul have moved beyond the hne-of-touch; or
• a player carrying the ball leaves the line-out; or
• the ball has been passed, knocked back or kicked from the
line-out; or
• the ball is thrown beyond a position fifteen metres from the
touch line; or
• the ball becomes unplayable.
NOTES
(viii)	If a player participating in a line-out hands the ball to another
player who is peeling-off from die line-out. the line-out ends
when the second player takes the ball.
(ix)	When die ball has been passed or knocked back from a line-out.
the line-out is ended. Players in front of a player of their own
team who receives the ball from the line-out may be ofl-side
but they should only be penalised under Law 24A if they play
the ball or obstruct an opponent in any way.
78
(X) A nick or maul has not moved from the line-of-touch unless all
the feet of the players in the ruck or maul have moved beyond
that line.
Peeling Off
“Peeling off occurs when a player (or players) moves from his position in
the line-out for the purpose of catching the ball when it has been passed or
knocked back by another of his team in the line-out.
0 F.K. (13) When the ball is in touch players who approach the line-
of-touch must always be presumed to do so for the purpose of
forming a line-out. Before the ball leaves the hands of the player
throwing it in, the players in the line-out must not leave it but may
change their position along lhe-line-of-touch. After the ball has
been thrown in such players must not leave the line-out except in a
peel-off movement.
Exception At a quick throw-in, when a player may come to the line-of-
touch and retire from that position without penalty
0
F.K (14) In a peeling off movement a player must move parallel
and close to the line-out
Restrictions on Players In Line-out
NOT WhCn a *’ne'out's taking place, any player in the line-out must
stand within five metres of the touch line or prevent the
ball from being thrown five metres, or
p.K, (b) be off-side, or
c
P.K. (c) use an opponent as a support to enable him to jump for
the ball, or
C
V P.K.(d) hold, push, charge, obstruct or grasp an opponent not
holding the ball, except when a ruck or maul is taking
place, or
1
V P.K (e) charge an opponent except in an attempt to tackle him or
to play the ball, or
C)
F.K (f) use any player of his team as a support to enable him to
jump for the ball, or
0
V* F.K. (g) lift a player of his team, or
0
F.K. (h) support any player of his team before this player has
jumped for the ball, or
c
P.K. (i) hold a supported player below the waist
NOTES
(xi)	Law 23B(8) is not an alternative to Law 23B( 15) (a). The first
is an obligation on the thrower, the second is an obligation on
the receiver. If a player prevents the ball from reaching five
metres it must always be penalised by a free kick.
(xii)	Any movement of a player beyond a position fifteen metres
from the touch line must be solely for (he purpose of catching
or jumping to catch the ball. The player may move in-field in
an attempt to catch the ball only after it leaves the hand of the
player throwing it in.
(xiii)	A player acting as scrum-half may not stand or move beyond a
position fifteen metres from the touch line before the ball has
passed that position unless he moves to anticipate a long throw-
in but he may so move only in accordance with the conditions
80
in the preceding note (xii).
(xiv)	Any infringement between the formation of the line-out and its
beginning shall be dealt with under the provisions ol Law 26(3 He).
E.V.
£' F.K. (16) A player jumping for the ball must do so with either both
hands or his inside arm to catch or deflect the ball. When a player
plays the ball with both hands above his head, he is allowed to use
either hand.
C F.K. (17) Except when jumping for the ball or peeling off, a clear
space of one metre must be left between the two lines of players
until the ball has touched or has been touched by a player or has
touched the ground
NOTE
(xv)	Tne act of jumping for the ball may include a step or steps in
any direction provided it takes the jumper up to but not across
the line-of-touch.
f
O F.K. (18) A player tn the line-out may move into the space between
the touch line and the five metres mark only when the ball has been
thrown beyond him and, if he does so. he must not move towards his
goal line before the line-out ends, except in a peeling off movement.
P.K. (19) Until the line-out ends, no player may move beyond a
position fifteen metres from the touch line except as allowed when
die ball is thrown beyond that position in accordance with the
Exception following Law 24D (1) (c) .
NOTE
(xvi)	Il the ball in a line-out becomes unplayable, otherwise than as
a result ol an infringement for which a penally is prescribed, a
scrummage should be ordered.
81
■ V P.K (20) A player participating in the line-out as defined in Law
24D may run into a gap in the line out and take the ball provided
he does not charge or obstruct an opponent in the line-out,
1RFB Ruling - December 1993
‘•Gap" means any space between the five metres line and the fifteen metres
line not occupied by a player.
Restrictions on Players not in Line-out
f)
V PK, (21) Players of either team who are not in the line-out may
not advance from behind the line-out and take the ball from the
throw-in. except only a player advancing at a long throw-in.
0
-Mz Penalty:
(a)	For an infringement of paragraphs (1), (2), (3). (4), (9)
(c), (13). (14). (15) (a).(D.(g) or (h), (17) or (18). a free
kick fifteen metres from the touch line along the line-of-
touch.
(b)	For an infringement of paragraphs 15 (b), (c). (d). (e) or
(i). (19) or (20). a penally kick fifteen metres from the
touch line along the line-of-touch.
(c)	For an infringement of paragraph (21). a penalty kick on
the offending team’s off-side line (as defined in Law 24
D) opposite the place of infringement, but not less than
fifteen metres from the touch line.
Place of scrummage
Any scrummage taken or ordcred under this Law or as the result of
any infringement in a line-out shall be formed fifteen metres from the
touch-line along the line-of-touch.
NOTE
(xvii)lf a player repeatedly infringes, he must be dealt with under
Law 26 (2).
For off-side at Line-out sec Law 24D
82
LAW 24. OFF-SIDE.
Off-side means that a player is in a postlion tn which he is out of the game
and is liable to penalty.
In general play the plover is in an off-side position because he is in front of
the ball when it has been last played by another player of his team.
In play at scrummage, ruck, maul or line-out the player is off-side because
he remains or advances in front of the line or place stated in, and
otherwise infringes, the relevant sections of this Law.
A. Off-side In Genera! Play
(1)	A player is in an off-side position if the ball has been:
• kicked; or
• touched; or
• is being carried by one of his team behind him.
(2)	There is no penally for being in an off-side position unless: -
(a)	the player plays the ball or obstructs an opponent; or
(b)	he being within ten metres of an opponent waiting to play
the ball or of the place where the ball pitches does not
retire without delay and without interfering with the
opponent; or
(c)	he. on all other occasions, moves towards the opponents
waiting to play the ball or to the place where the ball
pitches, before he is put on-side.
Exceptions:-
(i) When an off-side player cannot avoid being touched by the bail
or by a player carrying it, he is ‘•accidentally off-side". Play-
should be allowed to continue unless the infringing team
obtains an advantage, in which case a scrummage should be
formed at that place.
(ii)	A player who receives an unintentional throw-forward is not
off-side.
83
Penally:- Penalty kick at the place of infringement, or, at the option
of the non-offending team, a .scrummage at (he place where the ball
was last played by the offending team. If the latter place is In-goal,
the penalty kick shall be taken or the scrummage shall be formed
five metres from the goal line on a line through the place.
For an infringement of (2)(c) by more than one player, the place of
infringement will be that of the off-side player closest to the player
wailing for the ball or to where the ball pitches.
NOTES
(i) A penally for off-side should not be given at once if the non-
offending team gains an advantage or if it appears likely to gain
an advantage: but if the expected advantage is not gained, the
penally should in all cases be awarded even if it is necessary to
bring play back for that purpose to the place of infringement.
(ii) When a player knocks on and an off-side player of the same
team next plays the ball, a penalty for off-side should not be
awarded unless the off-side deprives the non-offending team of
an advantage.
(iii)	A player can be off-side in his In-goal.
(iv)	If a player hands the ball to another player of his team in front
of him, the second player is off-side. A scrummage lor
“accidental off-side" should be awarded unless it is considered
the player was wilfully off-side in which case a penalty kick
should be awarded.
(v)	The referee should whistle at once if an off-side player who
cannot be placed on-side charges within ten metres ot an
opponent wailing to receive the ball. Delay may prove
dangerous to the latter player. Where there is no opponent
wailing to play the ball but one arrives as the ball pitches, an
off-side player who is near such opponent must not obstruct or
interfere with him in any way whatsoever before he is put on-
side.
84
(vi)	If an attacking player kicks the ball which is mis-fielded by an
opponent and the ball is then played by another attacking player
in an off-side position within ten metres of the opponent, a
penalty kick should be awarded.
(vii)	If an attacking player kicks the ball which is charged down by
an opponent and another attacking player within ten metres of
the opponent then plays the ball, play should be allowed to
continue. The opponent was not "wailing to play the ball" and
the second attacking player is therefore on-side under Law
25(2).
(viii)	Law 24A(2) (b) and (c) also apply where the ball has struck a
goal-post or cross-bar. Off-side players must not approach or
remain within ten metres of an opponent waiting to play the
bail or the place where the ball pilches.
B. Off-side at Scrummage
The term “off-side line" means a line parallel to the goal lines through the
hindmost fool of lhe player’s team in the scrummage
While a scrummage is forming or is taking place :-
(1) A player is off-side if:
(a)	he joins it from his opponent’s side; or
(b)	he not being in the scrummage nor the player of either
team who puts the ball in the scrummage:
• fails to retire behind the off-side line or to his
goal line whichever is the nearer; or
• places either fool in front of the off-side line
while the ball is in the scrummage.
IRFB U19 Variation
Insert Section (c) as follows;
(c)	No 8 is the only player who is permitted to detach and
pick up the emerged ball. On his so doing, the
scrummage is ended.
Icnalty.- Penalty Kick at place of infringement
85
(2)	A player is off-side if
(a)	he, being die player in a scrum half position whose team
has won the ball, places both feet in front of the ball
while it is still in the scrummage, or
(b)	he, being the immediate opponent of the player in a scrum
half position whose team has won the ball, places either
foot m front of the ball while it is still in the scrummage.
(3)	A player is off-side if he, being the immediate opponent of the
player putting in the ball, moves to the opposite side of the
scrummage or moves away from the scrummage and is in front
of the scrummage off-side line.
RFU U15 Interpretation
A player is offside if he, being die immediate opponent of the player
putting in die ball, takes up a position on or moves beyond the middle line
of the scrummage.
LRFB Ruling - March 1996
If the immediate opponent of the player putting the ball into the scrummage
does not remain in close proximity to the scrummage he must remain
behind the scrummage off-side line.
f)
•• V Penalty:- Penally kick on the oft-side line.
NOTES
(ix)	Players must retire without delay to the scrummage off-side
line when a scrummage is forming. Loiterers must be
penalised.
(x)	Any player of either team may at a particular scrummage be (he
player who puts in the ball or who takes up position as scrum-
half when his opponent is putting in the ball; but such player is
at (hat scrummage the only player of his team who has the
benefit of Law 24B(2).
C.	Off-side at Ruck or Maul
The term “off-side line'" means a line parallel to the goal-line through the
86
hindmost foot of the player’s team in the ruck or maul.
(1)	Ruck or Maul otherwise than at line-out.
While a ruck or maul is taking place (including a ruck or maul
which continues after a line-out has ended) a player is off-side
if he:-
(a)	joins it from his opponent’s side; or
(b)	joins in front of the hindmost player of his team in the
ruck or maul; or
(c)	does not join the ruck or maul but fails to retire behind
the off-side line without delay; or
(d)	unbinds from the ruck or leaves the maul and docs not
immediately retire behind the off-side line; or once he is
on-side, if he rejoins the ruck or maul in front of the
hindmost player of his team in the ruck or maul, or
(e)	advances beyond the off-side line with either foot and
does not rejoin the ruck or maul.
' C) Penalty:- Penalty kick on the off-side line
(2) Ruck or Maul at line-out
The term "participating in the line-out” has the same meaning
a in Section D of this Law. A player participating in the line-
out is not obliged to join or remain in the ruck or maul and if
he is not in the ruck or maul he continues to participate in the
line-out until it has ended. While a line-out is in progress and
a ruck or maul takes place, a player is off-side if he:-
(a)	joins the ruck or maul from his opponent’s side; or
(b)	joins in front of the hindmost player of his team in the
ruck of maul; or
(c)	being a player who is participating in the line-out and is
not in the ruck or maul, does not retire to and remain at
the off-side line defined in this Section; or
87
Penalty:- Penally kick fifteen metres from the touch line
along the line-of-touch.
(d)	being a player who is not participating in the line-out,
remains or advances with either foot in front of the off-
side line defined in Section D of this Law.
Penalty:- Penally kick on the offending team’s off-side line
(as defined in Seclion D of this Law) opposite lhe
place of infringement but noi less than fifteen
metres from the touch line.
NOTE
(xi)	When (he line-out has ended but lhe ruck or maul is still taking
place, a player is off-side if he infringes Section (1) of these Laws.
D.	Off-side at Line-out
The term “participating in the Line-out” refers exclusively to the following
players:-
• those players who are in the line-out, and
• the player who throws in the ball; and
• his immediate opponent who may have the option of
throwing in the ball; and
• one other player of either team who lakes up position to receive
the ball if it is passed or knocked back from the line out.
All other players are not participating in the line-out.
The term “off-side line” means a line ten metres behind the linc-of-touch
and parallel to lhe goal lines or. if the goal line be nearer than ten metres to
the line-of-touch, the “off-side line" is the goal line.
Off-side while participating in Line-out
(1)	A participating player is off-side if: -
’ -Cj p.k, (a) before the ball has touched a player or the ground he
88
wilfully remains or advances with either foot in front of
the line-of-touch, unless he advances while jumping for
the ball provided that the jump is made from his side of
the line-of-touch; or
C P.K.(b) after the ball has touched a player or the ground, if he is
not carrying the ball, he advances with either foot in front
of the ball, unless he is lawfully tackling or attempting to
tackle an opponent who is participating in the line-out.
Such tackle or attempt to tackle must, however, start
from his side of the ball; or
C? P.K.(c) before the line-out ends he moves beyond a position
fifteen metres from the touch line.
Exception:- Players of the team throwing in the ball may move beyond a
position of fifteen metres from the touch line for a long throw-in to them.
They may do so only when the ball leaves the hand of the player throwing
it m and if they do so their opponents participating in the line-out may
follow them. If players so move and the ball is not thrown to or beyond
them they must be penalised for off-side.
Penalty:- Penalty Kick fifteen metres from the touch line and
along the line-of-touch.
NOTES
(xii)	Players who advance beyond the off-side line or who move
beyond a position fifteen metres from the touch line in the
expectation of a long throw-in must be penalised if. for any
reason, the ball is not thrown beyond that position
(xni) A player who has jumped unsuccessfully for the ball and
crossed the line-of-touch should not be penalised if he retires
immediately to an on-side position.
(xiv)	The referee should be strict in dealing with those players who,
while not disputing possession of the ball in the line-out.
advance to an off-side position whether intentionally or not.
89
(2)	The player throwing in the ball and his immediate opponent must:-
(a)	remain within five metres of the touch line; or
(b)	retire to the off-side line; or
(c)	join the line-out after the ball has been thrown in five
metres; or
(d)	move into position to receive the ball if it is passed or
knocked back from the line-out provided no other player
is occupying that position at that line-out.
If they do not, they are off-side.
Penalty:- Penalty Kick fifteen metres from the touch line
along the line-of-touch.
NOTE
(xv)	If a player other than the wing three-quarter throws m the ball
from touch, the wing three-quarter must retire to the off-side
line, or join the line-out.
Off-side while not participating in linc-out
(3)	A player who is not participating is off-side if before the line-
out has ended he advances or remains with either foot in front
of the off-side line.
Exception:- Players of the team throwing in the ball who are not
participating in the line-out may advance fora long throw-in to them
beyond the line-out. They may do so only when the ball leaves
the hand of the player throwing in the ball and, if they do, their
opponents may advance to meet them. If players so advance for a
long throw-in to them and the ball is not thrown to them they must be
penalised for off-side
NOTE
(xvi)	[f a player not participating in the line-out is offside, the
referee should not whistle immediately it the opposing team
is likely to gain an advantage. He should apply the advantage
Law in all such cases.
90
Players returning to “on-side” position
(4)	A player is not obliged, before throwing in the ball, to wait until
players of his team have relumed to or behind the line-out but
such players are off-side unless they return to an on-side
position without delay.
0
Penalty:-Penalty kick on the offending team’s off-side line
opposite the place of infringement, but not less than
fifteen metres from the touch line.
NOTE
(xvii)Scrummage, ruck, maul and line-out - where these Laws state
a line which determines the off-side position such line
stretches continuously from touch line to touch line.

91
LAW 25. ON-SIDE.
On-side means that a player is in the Game and not liable to penalty for off-
side.
Player made on-side by action of his team
(1) Any player who is off-side in general play and who is not
infringing Law 24 A (2) becomes on-side as a result of any
of the following actions of his team:-
• when the off-side player has retired behind the player of
his team who last kicked, touched or carried the ball, or
• when one of his team carrying the ball has run in front of
him, or
• when one of his team has run in front of him after coming
from the place or from behind the place where the ball was
kicked.
In order to put the off-side player on-side, this other player
must be in the playing area. But he is not debarred from
following up in touch or touch-in-goal.
NOTE
1
(i)	An off-side player who is within ten metres of an opponent
waiting to play the ball or where a ball pilches, must retire and
continue to do so up to ten metres until he is pul on-side. It he
does not do so. he must be penalised.
Player made on-side by action of opposing team
(2)	Any player who is off-side in general play, except an off-side
player within ten metres of an opponent wailing to play the ball
or where the ball pitches, becomes on-side as a result of any of
the following actions:-
• when an opponent carrying the ball has run five metres; or
• when an opponent kicks or passes the ball; or
• when an opponent intentionally touches the ball and does
not catch or gather it.
An off-side playcr within ten metres of an opponent waiting
92
to play the ball or where the ball pitches, cannot be put on-
side by any action of his opponents. Any other off-side player
in general play is always put on-side when an opponent plays
the ball.
Player retiring at scrummage, ruck, maul or line-out
(3)	A player who is in an off-side position when a scrummage,
ruck, maul or line-out is forming or taking place and is retiring
as required by Law 24 (Off-side) becomes on-side:-
• when an opponent carrying the ball has run five metres, or
• when an opponent has kicked the ball.
An off-side player in this situation is not put on-side when an
opponent passes the ball.
NOTES
(ii)	The referee should be careful to ensure that no benefit under
Law 25(2) is gained by loiterers who wilfully remain in an off-
side position and thereby prevent opponents from running with.
kicking, passing orotherwi.se playing the ball.
(iii)	When a team has gained quick possession from a scrummage.
nick, maul or line-out and starts a passing movement.
opponents who are retiring must not be allowed to interfere
with the movement unless the conditions of Law 25(3) exist.
Referees should be strict in applying this.
93
LAW 26. FOUL PLAY.
Foul Play is any action by a player which is contrary to the letter and spirit
of the Gaine and includes obstruction, unfair play, misconduct, dangerous
play, unsporting behaviour, retaliation and repeated infringements.
Obstruction
(1) It is illegal for any player:-
(a)	who is running for the ball to charge or push an opponent
running for the ball, except shoulder to shoulder;
(b)	who is in an off-side position wilfully to run or stand in
front of another player of his team who is carrying the
ball, thereby preventing an opponent from reaching the
latter player;
(c)	who is carrying the ball after it has come out of a
scrummage, ruck, maul or line-out, to attempt to force his
way through the players of his team in front of him;
(d)	who is an outside player in a scrummage to prevent an
opponent from advancing round the scrummage
c
'Penalty:- Penalty kick al the place of infringement. A penalty
try may be awarded
NOTES
(i)	There are no circumstances in which a player carrying the ball
can be penalised for obstruction.
(ii)	The referee should note that;-
(a)	The intern ion of this Law as regards the penalties to be
imposed for serious forms of obstruction must be
applied.
(b)	If a player is guilty of charging or obstructing or
holding an opponent who is not carrying the ball or any
other form of foul play, before any other action is taken
the player must at once be cautioned or ordered oil II
he offends a second time, the referee has no alternative
to ordering him off. If the offence prevents a try
94
which probably would otherwise have been scored, a
penalty try must be awarded-
(c)	The intention of the Council of the International Board
is that if the referee has any doubt as to the balance of
probability, he should give the benefit of the doubt in
favour of the non-offending team and award the penally
try.
Unfair Play, Repeated Infringements
(2) Il is illegal for any player -
-0 P.K (a) deliberately to play unfairly or wilfully infringe any Law
of the Game,
fl
•V P.K. (b) wilfully io waste time,
f)
V P.K. (c) wilfully to knock or throw ihe ball from the playing area
into touch, touch-in-goal or over the dead-ball line;
('
P.K. (d) to infringe repeatedly any Law of the Game.
0
- w/ Penalty:- Penalty kick al the place of infringement. A penally try
may be awarded if the offence prevents a iry which
otherwise would have been probably scored. For
offences under (2) (d) a player may be cautioned and. if
he repeats the offence, must be ordered off.
Misconduct, Dangerous Play
(3)	It is illegal for any player: -
(a)	to strike an opponent;
(b)	wilfully or recklessly to hack or kick an opponent or trip
him with the foot, or to trample on an opponent lying on
the ground;
RFU U19 Interpretation
A player is assumed to have wilfully used the boot unless the referee is
certain that the boot made contact in an accidental manner.
(c)	to tackle early, late or dangerously, including the action
known as a “stiff arm tackle";
(d)	who is not running for the ball wilfully or recklessly to
charge or obstruct an opponent who has just kicked the
ball;
(c)	to hold, push, charge, obstruct or grasp an opponent not
holding die ball except in a scrummage, ruck or maul;
(Except in a scrummage or ruck the dragging away of a
player lying close to the ball is permitted. Otherwise
pulling any part of the clothing of an opponent is
holding.)
(f)	in the front row of a scrummage to form down some
distance from the opponents and rush against them;
(g)	in the front row of a scrummage wilfully to lift an
opponent off his feet or force him upwards out of the
scrummage;
(h)	wilfully or recklessly to cause a scrummage, ruck or
maul to collapse;
(i)	while the ball is out of play to molest, obstruct or in any
way interfere with an opponent or be guilty of any form
of misconduct;
(j) to commit any misconduct on the playing enclosure
which is prejudicial to the spirit of good sportsmanship.
0 Penalty:- A player guilty of misconduct and dangerous play shall
either be ordered off or else cautioned dial he will be
ordered off if he repeals the ofience. For a similar
offence after caution, the player must be ordered oft. In
addition to a caution or ordering ofl a penalty try or a
penalty kick shall be awarded as follows.-
96
(i) If the offence prevents a try which would otherwise probably
have been scored, a penalty try shall be awarded.
(ii)	The place for a penalty kick shall be: -
(a)	For offences other than under paragraphs (d) and (i) , at
the place of infringement
(b)	For an infringement of (d) the non-offending team shall
have the option of taking the kick at the place of
infringement or where the ball alights: and if the ball
alights:-
• in touch, the mark is fifteen metres from the touch
line on a line parallel to the goal lines through the
place where it went into touch; or
• within fifteen metres from the touch line, it is
fifteen metres from the touch line on a line parallel
to the goal lines through the place where it alighted;
or
•in In-goal, touch-in-goal, or over or on the dead-
ball line, it is five metres from the goal line on a
line parallel to the touch line through the place
where it crossed the goal line or fifteen metres
from lire touch line whichever is the greater. When
the offence takes place in touch the “place of
infnngement" in the optional penalty award is
fifteen metres from the touch line opposite to where
the offence took place.
It the offence takes place in touch-in-goal, the "place of
infringement" in the optional penalty award is in the
field-of-play five metres from the goal-line and fifteen
metres from the touch line.
(c)	For an offence under (i) , at any place where the ball
would next have been brought into play if the offence had
not occurred, or, if that place is on or beyond the touch
line, liftcen metres from that place on a line parallel to
the goal lines.
97
(iii)	For an infringement in In-goal, a penalty kick is to be awarded
as provided for under Law 1-4 Penalties.
(iv)	For an offence under Law 26(3) (i) . the penalty kick is to be
taken al whichever is the place where play would restart, that
• al the twenty-two metre line (at any point the non-
offending team may select); or
• at the centre of the half-way line; or
• if a scrummage five metres from the goal line would
otherwise have been awarded, at the place fifteen metres
from the touch line on a line five metres from and parallel
to the goal line, whichever is the greater.
(v)	For an offence which occurs within the playing enclosure while
the ball is still in play and which is not otherwise covered in the
foregoing, the penally kick shall be awarded in the playing urea
fifteen metres from the touch line and opposite to where the
offence took place.
(vi)	For an offence reported by a touch judge under Law 6B(6) a
penalty kick may be awarded where the offence occurred or
advantage may be played.
NOTES
(iii)	“Playing the man without the ball" and all forms of
dangerous tackling including early, late and still arm
"tackling" or attempting to tackle a player around the neck or
head or above the line of the shoulders MUST be punished
severely. Players who wilfully resort to this type of foul play
must be ordered off the field. Advantage should be played.
but a penalty try must be awarded if the dangerous tackle
prevents a probable try.
(iv)	It is tor the referee to decide what constitutes a dangerous
tackle, having regard to the circumstances, e.g.. the apparent
intentions of the tackler, or the nature of the tackle, or the
defenceless position of the player being tackled or knocked
over, which may be the cause of serious injury.
(v)	The following actions constitute dangerous play:-
(a)	if a player charges or knocks down an opponent carrying
the ball without any attempt to tackle him:
(b)	if a player taps or pulls the foot or feet of another player
who is jumping in a line-out lor the ball;
(c)	if a player attempts to tackle a player who. when fielding
a kick in open play, is off the ground jumping for the ball.
(vi)	A player shall not “take the Law into his own hands” nor
wilfully do anything that is dangerous to an opponent even if
the latter is infringing the Laws.
(vii)	If a player is obstructed after kicking the ball and the ball
strikes a goal post, the optional penalty should be awarded
where the ball alights after bouncing off the post.
(viii)	If a penalty kick has been awarded and, before the kick has
been taken, the offending team infringes Law 26(3)(I). the
referee should’
(a)	caution or order off the player guilty of misconduct;
and
(b)	in addition advance the mark for the penally kick ten
metres, this to cover both the original infringement
and the misconduct.
(ix)	Il a penally kick is awarded to a leiun and before the kick is
taken, a player of that team infringes Law 26 (3) (i). the referee
should:
(a)	caution or order off the player guilty of misconduct:
and
(b)	declare the penalty kick void; and
(c)	award a penalty kick against the team last guilty ot
misconduct.
(x)	The referee should note that:-
(a)	Repeated infringement is a question of fact and not a
question of whether the offender intended to infringe.
(b)	If the same player has to be penalised repeatedly he
should be dealt with under Law 26 (2) (d).
(c)	Foul play must not be condoned.
(d)	Repeated infringements arise mainly in connection
with scrummages, off-side and line-outs, tackles, rucks
and mauls. If a player has been penalised for infringing
one of these Laws several times in the same match, he
should be cautioned and, if he repeals the offence,
ordered off.
(e)	It is a question for the referee whether or not a series of
the same offences by different players of a team amounts
to repeated infringements. If he considers that it does,
he should give a general warning to that team and. if
the offence is repeated, he must order the next offending
player off the field.
(f)	In deciding the number of offences which should
constitute “repealed infringement" as indicated in (d) (e)
above the referee should always apply a strict standard
in representative and senior matches. On the third
occasion a caution must be given In the case ot junior
or minor matches where ignorance of the Laws and lack
of skill may account for many infringements, a less
strict standard may be applied.
(xi)	The International Board and the Unions in membership with
it will fully support referees in the strict and uniform
enforcement of the Laws as to repeated infringements.
(4) It is illegal for a team to adopt ploys known as:
(a)	The Flying Wedge
(b)	The Cavalry Charge
0
Penalty: Penalty Kick at the place of the original infringement.
\()ll s
(xii)	Hying Wedge
Tliis move usually occurs close to the opponent’s goal line
when a penalty kick or a free kick is awarded to the attacking
team, and is initialed by a player either tapping the ball himself
or receiving a short pass, and then driving toward the goal line
with his colleagues binding onto either side of him in a V or
wedge formation. Frequently the player is isolated illegally by
those of his own team in front of him The dangers inherent in
this formation are not for those initiating the move but for those
trying to stop it.
(xiii)	Cavalry Charge
A cavalry charge usually occurs when a penally kick or free
kick is awarded io the attacking team close to their opponent’s
goal line Players of the attacking team line up behind the
kicker, spacing themselves across the field in gaps of a metre or
iwo. On a signal from the kicker they begin to charge forward.
Only when they are close to the kicker does he tap kick the ball
and pass it to one of them. The defending team have to remain
behind a line 10 metres from the mark or their own goal line (if
nearer) until the ball has been kicked. The move is potentially
dangerous.
RFU U19 Variation of second, third and fourth sentences
One or more players of the attacking team line-up behind the kicker,
perhaps spacing themselves across the field in gaps of a metre or two. On
a signal from the kicker, one or more of them begins or begin to charge
forward. Only when he or they are close to the kicker does he tap kick the
ball and pass it to the charging player or players.
Players Ordered Off
A player who is ordered off shall take no further part in die match. When a
player is ordered off, the referee shall, as soon as possible after the match.
send to the Union or other disciplinary' body having jurisdiction over the
match a report naming the player and describing the circumstances which
necessitated the ordering off. The Union or other disciplinary body having
101
jurisdiction over the match shall consider such report and any other
evidence they deem appropriate. They shall then take such action and
impose such punishment as they sec fit.
Citing of Players
Where a player commits an act of foul play which has not been delected by
match officials, either of die Unions or affiliated organisations participating
in the match have the discretion to cite that player to show cause why he
should not be held accountable in the same way as a player who has been
ordered off.
RFU Ruling
Under Law 26 when a player is ordered off the playing enclosure or the
match is abandoned under Law 26 in a match played under the jurisdiction
of the R.F.U. the procedure shall be as follows: The referee shall send his
report within forty eight hours to:
(a)	The Disciplinary Secretary of the Constituent Body to
which the player's club is allocated
(b)	The R.F.U. when two or more players are ordered off
together for offences arising from their involvement in
the same incident and the Clubs for which they were
playing are allocated to separate Constituent Bodies.
(c)	The R.F.U. if the player is a registered or contracted
player of a Club playing in Premier Divisions 1 and 2 and
National Division I or if the Club for whom the player
was playing is not allocated to a Constituent Body.
(d)	The Union for which the player was playing in
International matches.
NOTE: In all the above cases the referee shall send a copy of his report to
his own Referee Society.
(c)	The Constituent Body in whose area die match was
played if he is not a member of a recognised Referee
Society.
The report will then be dealt with by the R.F.U. under the powers in that
behalf contained in Rule 5.12 or by the Constituent Body concerned under
102
die powers delegated to it under the powers contained in Rule 12.4 (see
"Delegation of Powers" in R.F.U. Handbook).
Club secretaries shall report to their Constituent Bodies, within forty eight.
the name and address of any player of their Club who has been ordered off
the playing enclosure. This applies irrespective of whether the referee is a
member of a Society or not.
In the event of an abandoned match the referee should:-
(i)	identify the individual culprits who alone will be
disciplined under Law 26;
(ii)	abandon the game under Law 6:
(iii)	explain to both Captains the reasons why he is
abandoning it.
103
LAW 27. PENALTY KICK.
/I penalty kick is a kick awarded to the non-offending team as stated tn the
Laws. It may be taken by any player of the non-offending team and
by any form of kick provided that the kicker, if holding the ball, must propel
it out of his hands or, if the ball is on the ground, he must propel it a visible
distance from the mark.
(1) The non-offending team has the option of taking a scrummage
at the mark and shall pul in the ball.
(2)	When a penally kick is taken the following shall apply:-
(a) The kick must be taken without undue delay.
(b) The kick must be taken at or behind the mark on a line
through the mark and the kicker may place the ball for a
place kick. If the place prescribed by the Laws for the
award of a penalty kick is within five metres of the
opponents’ goal line, the mark for the penalty kick or a
scrummage taken instead of it shall be five metres from
the goal line on a line through that place
(c)	The kicker may kick the ball in any direction and he may
play the ball again, without any restriction, except that if
he has indicated to the referee that he intends to attempt a
kick al goal or has taken any action indicating such
intention he must not kick the ball in any other way. A
player kicking for touch may only punt or drop kick the
ball. Any indication of intention is irrevocable.
RFU Ruling
If, having elected to kick at goal, the kicker placed the ball which then fell
over and the kicker changed the type of kick and proceeded to drop a goal,
the kick should stand.
(d)	The kicker’s team, except the placer for a place kick.
must be behind the ball until it has been kicked.
However, retiring players of the kicker’s team who are in
front of the ball will not be penalised if their failure to
retire is due to the rapidity with which the kick has been
taken but they must not stop retiring and must not enter
104
the game until they have been made on-side by an action
of their own team as required by Law 25(1).
IRFB Ruling - 1992
The requirement in 27(2)(d) for the kicker’s team to be behind the ball until
it has been kicked applies to all participating players, whether they are
within the playing area or outside it.
(e)	The opposing team must run without delay (and continue
to do so while the kick is being taken and while the ball
is being played by the kicker’s team) to or behind a line
parallel to the goal lines and ten metres from the mark, or
to their own goal line if nearer to the mark. If a kick at
goal is taken they must there remain motionless with
their hands by their sides until the kick has been taken.
Retiring players will not be penalised if their failure to
retire ten metres is due to the rapidity with which the kick
has been taken, but they must not stop retiring and must
not enter the game until they have retired ten metres back
from where the penalty kick was awarded or until one of
their own team who was at least 10 metres from the mark
has run in front of them.
(f)	The opposing team must not wilfully resort to any action
which may delay the taking of a penally kick. This
includes actions such as wilfully carrying, throwing or
kicking the ball away out of the reach of the kicker or
interfering with him.
C Penalty:-
For an infringement by the kicker’s team - a scrummage al the
mark.
For an infringement by the opposing team ■ a penally kick ten
metres in front of the mark or five metres from the goal line
whichever is the nearer, on a line through the mark Any player of
the non-offending team may take the kick.
105
notes
(i)	The kick must be taken with the hall which was in play unless
the referee decides that the ball is defective.
(ii)	The use of sand, sawdust or an approved kicking tee is
permitted for placing the ball.
(iii)	A player taking a penally kick may not bounce the ball on his
knee. The kick must be made with the fool or lower leg. If a
player fails to kick the ball, a scrummage should be ordered.
t iv j In addition to the general provision regarding waste of time, the
kicker is bound to kick without delay, under penalty.
The instructions in the second paragraph of note (i) on Law 13
apply also in the case of a penally kick. Even without a caulion.
if the delay is clearly a breach of Law the kick should be
disallowed and a scrummage ordered.
txt The referee must always make up nine lost by any delay in
taking the kick, as provided lor in note (ii) under Law 5.
(vi) If the kicker apjx'ars to be about to take a kick al goal, the
referee may ask him to stale his intention.
(vii) If the kicker is taking a kick al goal, all players of lhe opposing
team must remain passive from lhe lime lhe kicker commences
his run until (he kick has been taken.
(v iii i When a penalty kick is taken in In-goal, a penalty try shall be
awarded it’ a defending player by foul play prevents an
opponent from first grounding lhe ball.
(ix) If. from a penalty kick taken in In-goal, (he ball travels into
louch-in-goal or over lhe dead ball line, a five metre
scrummage should be ordered, the attacking team to put in the
ball
(xi If the kicker takes a drop kick and a goal results, the goal stands
even though the kicker has not indicated to lhe referee an
intention to kick at goal.
(xi) If. notwithstanding a prior infringement by (he opposing team.
106
a goal is kicked, the goal should be awarded instead of a further
penalty kick.
(xii) The referee should not award a further penalty if he is satisfied
that the reason for such further penalty has been deliberately
contrived by the kicker's team, but should allow play to
continue. If the referee awards a further penalty, the penalty
kick should not be taken before the referee has made the mark
indicating the place of the penalty.
107
LAW 28. FREEKICK.
A free kick is a kick awarded for a fair-catch or to the non-offending team
as stated in the Laws. A goal may not be scored from a free kick.
The team awarded a free kick may not score a dropped goal until after the
ball next becomes dead or an opposing player has played the ball or has
tackled an opponent or a maid has formed. This restriction applies
similarly following a scrummage taken in lieu of a free kick
A free-kick awarded for an infringement may be taken by any player of the
non-offending team.
A free-kick may be taken by any form of kick, unless kicking for touch,
provided that the kicker, if holding the ball, must propel it out of his hands
or, if the ball is on the ground, he must propel it a visible distance from
the mark.
(I) The team awarded a free kick has the option of taking a
scrummage at the mark and shall put in the ball.
(2) When a kick is taken, it must be taken without undue delay.
(3)	The kick must be taken at or behind the mark on a line through
the mark and the kicker may place the ball for a place kick.
(4)	If the place prescribed by the Laws for the award of a free kick
is within five metres of the opponents’ goal line, the mark for
the free kick, or the scrummage taken instead of it, shall be five
metres from the goal line on a line through that place.
(5)	The kicker may kick the ball in any direction and he may play
the ball again without restriction. A player kicking for touch
may only punt or drop kick the ball
(6)	The kicker’s team, except the placer for a place kick, must be
behind the ball until it has been kicked. However, retiring
players of the kicker’s team who are in front of the ball will not
be penalised if their failure to retire is due to the rapidity with
which the kick has been taken but they must not stop retiring
and must not enter the game until they have been made on-side
by an action of their own team as required by Law 25(1).
(7)	The opposing team must not wilfully resort to any action
which may delay the taking of a free kick. This includes
(8)
(9)
(10)
actions such as wilfully carrying^ throwing or kicking the ball
away out of reach of the kicker.
Tile opposing team must retire without delay to or behind a line
parallel to the goal lines and ten metres from the mark or to their
own goal line if nearer to the mark, or five metres from their
opponents’ goal line if the mark is in In-goal. Having so retired,
players of the opposing ream may charge, with a view to preventing
the kick, as soon as the kicker begins his run or offers to kick.
Retiring players will not be penalised if their failure to retire ten
metres is due to the rapidity with which the kick has been
taken, but they must not stop retiring and must not enter the
game until they have retired ten metres back from where the
free kick was awarded or until one of their own team who was
at least 10 metres from the mark has run in front of them.
If, having charged fairly, players of the opposing team prevent
the kick being taken, it is void.
Neither the kicker nor the placer shall wilfully do anything
which may lead the opposing team to charge prematurely. If
either does so, the charge shall not be disallowed.
• For an infringement by the kicker's team or for a void kick -
a scrummage at the mark and the opposing team shall pul in
die ball. 11 the mark is in In-goal, the scrummage shall be
awarded five metres from the goal line on a line through the
mark.
• For an infringement by the opposing team - a free kick ten
metres in Iront ol the mark or five metres from the goal line
whichever is nearer, on a line through the mark. Any player
ot the non-offending team may take the kick.
NOTES
(i) Hie kick must be taken with the ball which was in play unless
the referee decides that the ball is defective.
<ii> A player taking a tree kick may not bounce the ball on his knee
109
The kick must he made with the foot or lower leg. If a player
fails to kick the ball, a scrum should be ordered.'
tiiit The kicker may not feint to kick and then draw back. Once he
makes any movement to kick, the opponents may charge.
(i v > In addition to the general provision regarding waste of time, the
kicker is bound to kick without delay, under penalty.
(v)	The referee shall see that the opposing players do not gradually
creep up and that they have both feet behind the ten metres line.
otherwise he shall award a penally in accordance with the
penally provisions of Law 28.
(vi)	If the kick is taken from behind the goal line, the hall is in play
if an opponent legitimately plays it before it crosses the goal
line, and a try may be scored.
(vii)	When a free kick is taken in In-goal. a penally try shall be
awarded if .1 defending player, by foul play, prevents an
opponent from first grounding the ball.
t'.iii) If from a free kick taken in In-goal the ball teasels into touch-
in-goal or over the dead-ball line, a five metres scrummage
should be ordered, the attacking team to pul in the ball.
(ix) If opponents lawfully charge down a free kick in the playing
area, play should be allowed to continue.
(x) If a Iree kick has been awarded in the lield-of-play and the
player retires to his In-goal to lake the kick and his opponents
having lawfully charged to prevent the kick Irom being taken.
a scrummage shall be awarded five metres front the goal line
on a line through the mark.
II a Iree kick has been awarded in In-goal and the opponents
having lawfully charged prevent the kick Irom being taken, a
scrummage shall be awarded five metres Irom the goal line on
a line through the mark.
If (he referee is satisfied that the reason for a free kick under the
penally provisions has been contrived, he should allow play to
continue. If the referee awards a further penalty (he free kick
should not be taken before the referee has made the mar
indicating the place of the penalty.
110
INDEX TO LAWS OF THE GAME
Accidental Off-side..................................24A Exception (i)
Advantage...........................................................8
Approved Kicking Tee........................ ........................................10,13,27
Attacking Team.........................Definition, 12, 14,20(7), 23(6)
Ball - Description of.......
Held in In-goal........
Illegally Touched.......
In Touch ...............
In Touch-in-goal...........
Lying with. On or Near ....
Taking Over Own Goal-line .
Touching Referee .........
Unplayable...............
Beyond or Behind or In Front
Binding______...................
Binding in Scrummage . ...
in Ruck .............
........................2
.................... 14(2)
.......................11
......................23
...........14(2). (3)26(3)
.......................18
.....................14(3)
........................9
14(2), 21(3). 22(4), 23(12)
....... ..............Definition
..............Definition
....................20(6)
....................21(1)
Charging at Kicks ..........................10(6). 13(2). 15(6), 28(8)
at Line-Out.....................................23 B (15). (20)
at Opponent..............26(1), (a), NOTE (ii)(b), (3)(d) and (e)
Choice of Ends..........................................______-5(1)
Collapsing of Scrummage ...........................20( 14)(b). 26(3)
of Ruck .......................................21(2). 26(3)
of Maul ..............................................22(2)
Commencement of Match....................................6 A (6),
Comer Post.............................................I and Plan
Cross Bar..................... .............................................Plan and 11
Dangerous Play at Scrummage........................... 20 (3). 26 (3)
Dead Ball ..............................................Definition. 14
Dead Ball Line...........................................................................1, Plan, 14
Ill
Defending Team______ ...................Definition, 10.12,
Defending Player ...............................................__
Delays Permitted.................................................._
illegal .....13(2), 20( 1) (8), 23(B) Note (iv), 24 C. D, 27(2), 28(2)
Dress ___________________........................................................____ .4
Drop Kick _____________________________ ______10,11.13,15,27.28
Drop-Out .........................................12C (2), 14(4), 15
Duration of Match .............................................. 5............
Fair Catch (Mark) ..................................Definition, 16,28
Field-of-Play......................................................1
Five Metres...................................................Plan
for Scrummage.....................................12 D, 14.20
for Line-out_______________ ......................................23B (8) and (9)
for Penalty Kick__________.........................................27 (2)
for Free Kick............................................28(4)...................
Fifteen Metre__________________...........................................______Plan
Flag ......................................................1 and Plan
Foul Play .......................................................-26
Free Kick____________________16.28, in red in Laws 20,21.22 and 23
Goal Scoring..........................................._________**
Signalling.......................................................-6 B (6), (7)
Kick at...................................................13,27
Goal Lines ...............................................I and Plan
Try on.................................................12 A (2)
Off-side Line at Line-out .................................24 D
Ground..................................................' ^an
Grounding Ball ______.......................................__
Hacking.......................................................-6 <3)
.....................................................
Half-time .........................................5 (3). 6 A (6). 10
Half-way Line ............................................^an’
112
	23 B (15), 26 (3)	
Hooker			20. Definition. 20 (6) 	-26 (3)
.. .1 and Plan, 11. 12, 14, 16,26 (Penalty (iii)), 28 i^ipiav’ " 	.9(2). 14	
	
**? 	 International Matches Time	 International Rugby Football Board		-5 (2) 	6A(3) 	5 (3)
Jumping-Illegal			21(2), 22(2), 23B (15) (16)
Kick 	 	 Kick-off			-5(1),7.10 	17
Late Tackle 			26 (3) 	23 B
Begins 	 Throwing in the Ball	 Quick Throw-in	 Peeling off	 Restriction on Players 	 Off-side at	 On-sicle at 	 Ends	 Line through the Mark (or Place) . Lying with, on or Near the Ball . ..		23 B (II) 	23 B (5),(6), (7), (8), (9), (10) 	23 B (5)(c). (7). (9) 	 23 B (13). (14), (18) 23 B( 15). (16). (17), (18). (19). (20) 	24D(1),(2).(3) 	.24 D(4).25(3) 	 23 B (12) 	18
Mark (Fair Catch).........
Maul ..................
Method of Scoring ........
Misconduct...............
Mode of Play .............
National Representative Team
No-side ..................
Notes ..................
...........Definition, 16, 28
............22,24 C. 25 (3)
..........................11
...............26(1), (2), (3)
...........................7
................3 (4) 6 B (6)
..................5.6 A (6)
.In blue print throughout Laws
113
Number of Players __......................................... 3
Obstruction..............................................26(1), (3)
Off-side in General Play ......................................24 A
at Scrummage ___________.............................................24 B
at Ruck or Maul.........................................24 C
at Line-out...............................................24 D
Offside Line.................................................Definition 24 B, C, D
On-side................................................7, 12 A (1), 25
Options.............10 (2), (3), (4), 15,23 B, (7). (9), 24 D. 26,27.28
Pass .............................................7,18(1), 25 (2) (3)
Peeling-off........................................Definitions. 23B, (13), (14), (18)
Penalties................................................In red print throughout Laws
Penalty Kick....................................................27
Penalty Try ................................................12B.26,
Picking up the Ball_________7, I2A(3), 17(2). 18.20 (16) (c), 21 (2)(d)
Place Kick ..............................................10,132728
Plan of Field......................................................1
Players - Dress .................................................4,6
Hurt...........................5 (4), 6 A(7) (8) (c), and 16(d)
In the Line-out..........23B (I), (15), (16),(17),(18),(19),(20)
Leaving Playing Enclosure or Resuming .............6 A (8) (c)
Misconduct ........................................6 A (8), 26
Number of ...............................................-3
Ordered off............................................................. 26
........
Participating in Line-out________23B., (20), 24 C (2), 24 D (1) (2).
Reported to the Union ....................................
Touching Referee...........................................
Playing Enclosure .............................. . 1,6 A (7), 6 A (8) (c)
Playing time lost..................................................$
Props ..........................................................
...............................
Punt .....................................................Definition
Pushing an Opponent...........................23 B (15), 26 (1), (3).......
Referee - Appointment and Duties
..............................
Repeated Infringement of Laws
...6 A
26 (2)
114
Replacements .......................
Ruck ...............................
Sand & Sawdust - Use of ............
Scoring, Method of..................
Scrummage...........................
Beginning of..................
Binding in....................
Entering from Opponents' Side
Forcing Way Through ..........
Off-side and Off-side Line .
Pushed Over Goal Line.........
Putting Ball into.............
Restrictions on Players in ....
Start of Match .....................
Stoppage of Match...................
Stoppage of Play....................
Striking an Opponent................
Studs...............................
........................3
.................21,24 C
.................10,13,27
........................11
.......................20
..................20(10)
...................20 (6)
.....................24 B
.............. 26(l)(c)
....................24 B
..................12 A(2)
14,20 (7). (8), (9), (10). (II)
.. .20 (12),(I3),(14),(15),(16)
..............6A (6) (a). 7
.............5,6A(6)(b)
.............5.6A(6)(b)
...................6 (3) (a)
....................-4 (3)
Tackle, Lying with, on or near the ball .
Tackled Player....................
Ten Metres Line at Kick-off.......
at Line-out ................
Throw-forward.....................
Time.......
Timekeeper
Toss ......
Touch ....
Throwing in from.............
Throwing into................
Touch-down........................
Touch-in-Goal ....................
Touch Judges - Appointment and Duties
Touch Line........................
Trampling.........................
Tripping..........................
Try'..............................
.......................7,18
..........................18
..............I, Plan, 10(2)
...........24 D, Definition
..........................17
..........................................................6 A (3)
5
.....................1,23A
.................6B.23 B
......................26(2)
..............6,9, 12 C. 14
,1, Plan. 6 B (4). 14 Definition
........................6 B
................I. Plan,23 B
......................26(3)
...................26(3)(b)
..............9,11,12.1426
115
Twenty-two Metres Line
Unconverted Try
Undue Delay ..
Unfair Play .
Union..........
Upright .......
l.Plan, 14,15.16
...............10
13(2), 27 (2). 28
..........-26(2)
.......Definition
.........1, Plan
Waste of Ti me ...........................................26(2)(b)
Whistle ...................................................6 A (6)
Wilful Obstruction and Foul Play .....................26 (I), (2), (3)
Collapsing of Scrummage .....................20(16)(d), 26(3)(h)
Knock-on or Throw Forward . ..........................17 (1)
Kicking Out of Scrummage .............................20 (14) (d)
Misleading of Opponents......13,20 (17) (b), 21(2)(b), 22(2)(d), 28
Persistant Infringements............. ................26 (2) (d)
Throw into Touch .....................................26 (2) (c)