5
THE
LAWS OF THE GAME
OF RUGBY FOOTBALL
with
INSTRUCTIONS AND NOTES ON THE LAWS
as framed by
The International Rugby Board
© International Rugby Football Board
6
CONTENTS
Page
Foreword _______________________________________________________________8
Administration ...........................................................9
Definitions .....................................................................................11
Law
1,	Ground____________________________
2.	Ball______________________________
3.	Number of Players . . ■ • • •
4.	Players’ Dress ...............
5.	Toss, Time________________________
6.	Referee and Touch Judges _______
7.	Mode of Play________________
8.	Advantage .........................
9.	Ball or Player Touching Referee .
10 Kick-off__________________________
11 Method of Scoring ...........
12.	Try and Touch-down______________
13.	Kick at Goal after a Try ............
14.	In-goal ............
15.	Drop-out__........................
16.	Fair-catch (Mark..................
17.	Knock-on or Throw-forward ....
18.	Tackle, Lying with, on or near the ball
19.	Lying with, on or near the ball . ....
...14
. ..15
. .16
............	... .22
. .26
... .28
... .34
... .35
...................	... .36
..37
... .38
. ..39
. . .41
.. .43
... .46
.. .48
... .49
. ..51
... .55
20. Scrummage __.......... ...................... .............................................55
21. Ruck_______________________________________________________ .. .69
22. Maul.... ....................................... 72
23. Touch and Line-out__________________________
24. Off-side____________ ...................................
A. In General Play ... .............
B At Scrummage..........................
C. At Ruck or Maul_________________________
D. At Line-out..............................	..............................
25. On-side ____________________________________
26. Foul Play....................................
27. Penalty Kick_______...........................__ ■
28. Free Kick....................................
Index ...................
RB Standard Set of Variations appropriate for the Seven a Side Game
IRB Standard Set of Variations to the Laws of the Game at U19 Level
RFU U19 Interpretations, Variations and Advice for those who play and
manage (le coaches, referees etc) players aged U19 on 1st September
..76
. .86
.86
..88
. .89
.91
.95
. .97
106
.109
.112
118
124
128
7
FOR YOUR INFORMATION
1)	Law changes are indicated by a black line in the margin.
2)	The Laws are printed in black
The associated penalties in red
The Noles are in blue
The “Notes to the Laws” have been placed next to the individual Law to
which the Note pertains.
To avoid confusion the numbers designating each note are in ROMAN
instead of ARABIC numerals.
3)	IRB Standard Set of Variations to the Laws of the Game at U19 Level
are printed in green blocks and arc included within the relevant Law.
RFU Law U19 Interpretations are printed in magenta blocks and are
included within the relevant Law.
REFEREES - It is appreciated that referees will have to adjust their
prionties and approach when they are refereeing at Under 19 level rather
than at senior level. We have every confidence they will achieve what is
asked of them - if they apply the spirit behind these Law interpretations.
4)	IRB Rulings arc printed in grey blocks and are included within the
relevant Law
RFU Rulings are printed in purple blocks and are included within the
relevant Law
'<dC P-K. in the margin means penalty kick for infringement.
F.K. in the margin means free kick for infringement.
5)
6) A complete transcript of the IRB Standard Set of Variations to the Laws
of the Game and IB 7’s Variations, IB U19 Level Variations and RFU
Interpretations at U19 Level can be found in the RFU Handbook 1998/99
directly after the Rulings on the Laws of the Game Section.
8
foreword
The Object of the Game is that two teams of fifteen, ten or seven players each,
observing fair play according to the Laws and a sporting spirit, should by
carrying, passing, kicking and grounding the ball score as many points as
possible, the team scoring the greater number of points to be the winner of the
match.
The Laws of the Game, including the Standard Sets of Variations for Under 19
Rugby and for the Seven-a-Side Game are complete and contain all that is
necessary to enable the game to be played correctly and fairly. Nevertheless, in
a complex game where so many diverse situations can arise, the Board finds it
necessary to instruct all concerned as to the meaning and effect of some of the
Laws, and to add emphasis to duties which the Laws place on the
referee. This is all the more necessary because lack of uniformity in referees’
decisions is bad for the game.
These instructions and Notes, are, therefore, issued by the Council of the
International Rugby Football Board so that all concerned in every country may
follow a consistent and uniform practice.
It is the duty of the referee (Law 6A(3)) to apply fairly the Laws of the Game
without any variation or omission. Equally the referee is obliged to follow the
instructions and guide-lines herein laid down by the Council.
It is the duty of Unions to ensure that the Game at every level is conducted in
accordance with disciplined and sporting behaviour. This principle cannot be
upheld solely by the referee; its observance also rests on Unions, affiliated
bodies and clubs.
9
ADMINISTRATION
1.	Proposals for changes in the Laws of the Game:
These together with any amendments to these proposals will be circulated
to Unions and will be dealt with in accordance with Bye-Law 9.10
2.	Submission of Proposals:
Unions shall state with each proposal individually set out:
(a)	the definite wording of the proposed alteration;
(b)	the object of the proposal, and
(c)	the reason for it.
3.	Laws Committee:
Pursuant to Bye-Law 9.13, the Council shall establish a standing Laws
Committee consisting of not more than six representatives (to be
appointed or re-appointed annually).
4.	The functions of the Laws Committee:
These are as follows:
(a)	To consider and report on all proposals submitted by Unions to the
Council for alterations in the Laws of the Game.
(b)	To recommend alterations to the wording of proposals and
consequential alterations to give effect to its recommendations.
(c)	The Committee is not authorised to make recommendations which
depart in principle, as distinct from detail, from specific proposals
submitted by Unions.
(d)	To investigate and report on such matters as the Council may, from
time to time direct Where appropriate, reports may include
recommendations for alterations to the Laws of the Game for
consideration by Unions.
5.	Designated Members:
The Laws Committee should each year appoint three of their members to
be the Designated Members who will give interim rulings pursuant
to the Council Minutes on that subject.
Rulings from Designated Members:
(a)	Rulings from the three Designated Members should only be
sought in cases in which the Union concerned was itself unable
to give a Ruling after full consideration of the point by their
appropriate Committee. Only cases of real doubt or difficulty
related to incidents in actual play, and not to hypothetical cases,
should be referred to the Council, In all such references for a
Ruling the Union should state its own opinion as to what the
correct ruling ought to be, as this will be helpful to the three
Designated Members.
(b)	All decisions of the three Designated Members on applications for
rulings on the Laws of the Game should be circulated to all Unions
after confirmation by the Council.
(c)	The Chairman of the Laws Committee shall indicate which
Rulings are to be submitted to the Council for consideration as
alterations to the Laws, for Instructions and Notes on the Laws.
11
DEFINITIONS
The following terms have the meaning assigned to them:
Beyond or Behind or In front of any position implies “with both feet", except
when unsuited to the context.
Binding means grasping firmly another player’s body from the shoulder to the
hips, with the whole arm from hand to shoulder.
Dead means that the ball is for the time being out of play. This occurs when the
referee blows his whistle to indicate a stoppage of play or when an attempt to
convert a try is unsuccessful.
Defending Team means the team in whose half of the ground the stoppage
of play occurs and the opponents of the defending team are referred to as
“the Attacking Team”.
Gender: All references in these Laws to persons involved in the Game shall be
construed as applying to both the masculine and feminine genders.
Kick. A kick is made by propelling the ball with the leg or foot (except the heel),
from the knee to toe inclusive. If the player is holding the ball, he must propel it
out of his hands, or if it is on the ground, he must propel it a visible distance.
Drop Kick. A drop kick is made by letting the ball fall from the hand (or hands)
to the ground and kicking it at the first rebound as it rises.
Place Kick . A place kick is made by kicking the ball after it has been placed on
the ground for that purpose.
Punt. A punt is made by letting the ball fall from the hand (or hands) and kicking
it before it touches the ground.
Mark. The mark is the place at which a free kick or penalty kick is awarded.
Line Through the Mark (or Place). Except where specifically stated
otherwise, the words “a line through the mark” or “a line through die place"
always means a line parallel to the touch line.
Union means the controlling body under whose jurisdiction the match is played
and in the case of an International Match it means the International Rugby
Football Board or a Committee thereof.
Other definitions are included in and have effect as part of the Laws.
NOTE indicates post with a flag.
Length and breadth of the field to be as near to dimensions indicated as possible.
All areas to be rectangular.
The distance from the goal line to the dead hall line should be not less than 10 metres.
where practicable.
--- these broken lines indicate 10 metre distance from the half way line and 5 metres
from th etouch-lines.
The — lines at the goal lines extend 5 metres into the field of play.
Goal dimensions:- 3 metres is taken from the ground to the top edge of the crossbar
and 5.60 metres inside to inside of the goalposts.
A minimum height of 1.20 metre above the ground is desirable for comerposts.
Mark 5 metres from each goal line at six positions viz 5m and 15 metres and in
front of each goal post.
Law 1
LAW 1. GROUND.
The field-of-play is the area as shown on the plan, bounded by, but not
including, the goal lines and touch lines.
The playing area is the field-of-play and In-goal. The playing enclosure
is the playing area and a reasonable area surrounding it.
The Plan, including all words and figures therein, is to take effect as pan
of these Laws.
The Terms appearing on the Plan are to bear their apparent meaning and to be
deemed part of the definitions as if separately included.
(1)	All lines shown on the plan must be suitably marked out. The touch
lines are in touch. The goal lines are In-goal. The dead-ball line is
not in In-goal. The touch-in-goal lines and comer posts are in
touch-in-goal. The goal posts are to be erected in the goal lines.
The twenty-two metre lines are in the twenty-two metre areas.
(2)	The game must be played on a ground of the area (maximum)
shown on the plan and marked in accordance with the plan. The
surface must be grass-covered or. where this is not available, clay
or sand, provided the surface is not of dangerous hardness.
(3)	Any objection by either team about the ground or the way in
which it is marked out must be made to the referee before the first
kick-off. If teams cannot agree as to the safely of the ground the
referee will decide whether the game may begin. If there is any
doubt as to the safety of the ground the referee will not allow the
game to begin until the ground has been made safe.
Law 2
LAW 2. BALL.
(1)	The ball when new shall be oval in shape, of four panels and of the
following dimensions:
Length in line
Circumference (end on)
Circumference (in width)
Weight
280 to 300 mm.
760 to 790 mm.
580 to 620 mm.
400 to 440 grams.
NOTE
(i)	The ball, at commencement of play, should have a pressure al sea
level of 9.50 - lOlbs per square inch or 0.67 - 0.70 kilograms per
square centimetre.
(2)	The dimensions of the ball may be reduced only for younger schoolboys.
(3)	Balls may be specially treated to make them resistant to mud and easier to
grip. The casings need not be of leather.
NOTE
(ii) It is permissible to have spare balls available during match, but a
team may not gain or attempt to gain an unfair advantage through
their use or by changing them.
Law 3
LAW 3. NUMBER OF PLAYERS AND THE REPLACEMENT AND
SUBSTITUTION OF PLAYERS
Number of Players in a Team
(1) A Team shall comprise:
(a) no more than fifteen players on the playing area
(b) a number of players for replacement/substitution as authorised by the
Laws of the Game.
(2)	When a Union authorises matches to be played with fewer than fifteen
players per team, the Laws of the Game shall apply except that there will
be no fewer than three players per team in the scrummage at all times.
NOTE:
(i) Seven-a-side games are covered by the standard set of variations adopted
for this type of game.
(3)	Any objection by either team as regards the number of players in a team
may be made to the referee at any time but objections shall not affect any
score previously obtained.
Nomination of Players for Replacement/Substitution
(4)	For international matches a Union may nominate up to seven
replacements/substitutes.
For other matches the number of replacements/substitutes is the
responsibility of the Union having jurisdiction over the match
provided they otherwise comply with the Laws of the Game.
Nominated Players and Replacements/Substitutes of a Team
(5)	A team must include suitably trained/expericnced players as follows:
(a) if a team nominates 16, 17 or 18 players, it must have at least four
players who can play in front row positions;
(b) if a team nominates 19, 20, 21 or 22 players, it must have at least
ive players who can play in front row positions.
17
Law 3
Injured Player and his Replacement
(6)	An injured player should stop playing and be replaced as follows:
(a)	On the account of a bleeding or open wound the player must
leave the playing area until such time as the bleeding is controlled
and the wound is covered or dressed: the replacement of the player
is temporary but, if he is unable to resume playing, the replacement
becomes permanent.
(b)	On the account of any other type of injury: if the referee is advised
by a doctor or other medically trained person or for any other reason
considers that a player is so injured that it would be harmful for him
to continue playing, the referee shall require the player to leave the
playing area. For this purpose, the referee may also require a player
to leave the field to be examined medically.
(7)	An injured player who has been permanently replaced must NOT \
resume playing.
(8)	The replacement of an injured player may be made on the
following advice:
(a) in matches in which a national representauve team is playing,
by a medical practitioner only.
(b) in other matches, by a medically trained person, or if a medically
trained person is not present, by a request from the team’s captain
to the referee.
(9)	The replacement of an injured player shall be made only when the ball is
dead and with the permission of the referee The referee should not permit
a player to resume until the ball is dead.
Law 3
Substituted Players
(10)	Up to two substitutes of front row players and up to five substitutes of
other players may be made for any reason only when the ball is dead
and with the permission of the referee.
(11)	Players who have been substituted may not re-enter the match even to
replace an injured player except in the case of a player having a
bleeding or open wound or for an injured front row player if no other
suitably trained replacement is available.
Special Circumstances
(12)	In the event of a front row forward being ordered off, the referee, in the
interests of safety, will confer with the captain of his team to
determine whether another player is suitably trained/experienced to take
his position; if not the captain shall nominate one other forward to leave
the playing area and the referee will permit a substitute front row forward
to replace him. This may take place immediately or after another player
has been tried in the position.
When there is no other front row forward available due to a sequence of
players ordered off or injured or both, then the game will continue with
non contestable scrummages which are the same as normal scrummages
except that:
• there is no contest for the ball
• the team putting in the ball must win it
• neither team is permitted to push
• the formation of both teams must be 3-4-1
•if one team is one player short, then its scrummage must be in a
3-4 formation
team is lwo players short, then its scrummage must be in a
■5-2-1 formation
if one team is three players short, then its scrummage must be in a
3-2 formation
Law 3
IRB U19 Variation
(5)(c) If a team nominates 22 players, it must have at least six players who can
play in the front row and there must be replacement cover for the loose
head prop, hooker and tight head prop.
(d)	If a team nominates more than 22 players, it must have six players who
can play in the front row in order that there is replacement cover for the
loose head prop, hooker and tight head prop and there must be three
players who can play in lock positions.
(13)	Players who have been substituted may replace an injured player.
IRB Ruling on the U19 Standard Variations - December 1993
If a lock forward is sent off for foul play one of the remaining fourteen players !
should be replaced by substitution to ensure a complete suitably trained front '
five is left on the field of play. \
In International matches no front five substitution may take place unless the
substitute is properly trained to play in the position for which he is required.
Attention is drawn to LB. Resolution 5.5 which states that “A player who has
suffered definite concussion should not participate in any match or training
session for a period of at least three weeks from the time of the injury, and then
only subject to being cleared by a proper neurological examination
21
20
Law 3
Law 3
LAW 3 NUMBER OF PLAYERS Replacements and Substitutions International Matches, European Cup and Conference Matches. Allied Dunbar Premiership. Tetley Bitter Cup (round 3 onwards) and matches between domestic teams and teams from other Unions. Note A County Chalmpionship, Jewson National Leagues, Tetley Bitter Cup (upto and including round 2). Note A	Not more than se.; p]ayer$ in attendance Not more that players in attendance	At least five players must be able to play in front row positions. (Law 3(5)(b)) At least five players must be able to play in front row positions. (Law 3(5)(b)) 	
NPI Cup. Tetley Bitter Vase and English Club Championship - levels 5. Note A	Not more thaah players in attendance	At least five players must be able to play in front row positions. (Law 3(5)(b))
English Clubs championship - level 6 and 7 Note B	Not more than th players in attendance	At least four players must be able to play in front row positions. (Law 3(5)(b))
Level 8 and below	Not more than players in attendance	At least four players must be able to play in front row positions. (Law 3(5)(b))
Under 21	Not more than sea players in attendance	At least five players must be able to play in front row positions. (Law 3(5)(b))
Under 19 Under 15	Seven playas: attendance Seven playas»attendance 					At least six players must be able to play in front row positions. There must be replacement cover for the loose head prop, hooker and tight head prop (IRB U19 Variation Law 3(5)(c)) Any number of replacements or substitutions by mutual agreement
Note A: Competition Regulation “If on the first or second occasion a front rowf<
capable of playing in the front row' of the senun^-
Note B: Competition Regulation As above except deletion “or second"
Law 3 (11) Players who have been substituted may not re-enter the malc^ £'^.
or for an injured front row player if no other suitably trained repl*
Nou B. Condon Regulation As above exccpt
Note B: Royal Sun Allaince Colts County Championship - Counties must se*1’ 4 proPs- 2 hookers and 3 locks in the squad of 22.
Law 4
LAW 4. PLAYERS’ DRESS.
(1)	A player’s dress consists of jersey, shorts and undergarments.
socks and boots.
(2)	In addition, and subject to (3) below, a player may also wear:
(a)	supports made of elasticated or compressible materials which must be
washable;
(b)	shin guards provided that no part of the guard exceeds 0.5 ems, and it
is covered by non- rigid fabric and worn under a sock;
(c)	ankle supports which may be of rigid material other than metal. Such
support may only be used if:
• it is worn under a sock;
• does not extend higher than one third of the length of the shin
(d)	mitts (fingerless gloves);
(e)	shoulder pads made of soft and thin material and which may be
incorporated in an undergarment or the jersey provided that:
• the pads shall cover the shoulder and collar bone only;
• no part of the pads shall be thicker than 1 cm when uncompressed;
• no part of the pads shall have a density of more than 45 kg per cubic
metre
The measurement of thickness and density shall include any other
material within which the pads are incorporated and/or secured to the
shoulder.
(f)	in the case of women only, chest pads made of soft and thin materials
and which may be incorporated as part of a garment and provided
that:
• the pads shall cover the shoulder and/or collar bone and/or chest
only;
23
Law 4
no part of the pads shall be thicker than 1 cm when uncompressed;
and
no part of the pads shall have a density of more than 45 kg per cubic
metre.
The measurement of thickness and density shall include any other
material within which the pads are incorporated and/or secured to the
shoulder.
(g)	mouth guard;
(h)	headgear made of soft and thin materials and provided that:
no part of the headgear shall be thicker than 1 cm when
uncompressed; and
no part of the headgear shall have a density of more than 45 kg per
cubic metre
The measurements of thickness and density shall include any other
material forming part of the headgear and/or means of securing.
(i)	bandages and/or dressings to cover or protect any injury;
(j)	thin tape or other similar material as support and/or to prevent any
injury
(3)
The following arc strictly prohibited:
(a) any item which is contaminated by blood;
(b) any item which is sharp or abrasive;
(c)

W) jewellery such as rings and carings;
(e)	gloves;
24
Law 4
(f)	shorts with padding sewn into them;
(g)	any item, save where permitted by Law 4 (2) (e), (f) or (h) of which
any part is thicker than 0.5 cm when uncompressed or which has a
density of more than 45 kg per cubic metre;
(h)	any item which, in the referee’s opinion, and whether due to it not
being an item permitted by Law 4 or, where permitted, because of us
condition, is such as to be liable to cause injury to any player.
(4) Any boot worn by a player must conform to the following:
(a) studs must conform to British Standard BS6366 1983 or an equivalent
standard;
(b) studs must be:
• securely fastened to the sole of the boot;
• no longer than 18 mm, measured from the sole;
• a minimum diameter at the base of the stud of 13 mm;
• a minimum diameter at the top of the stud of 10 mm;
• where secured by an integral washer, that to have a minimum
diameter of 20 mm;
• not worn as a single stud at the toe of the boot
(c)	moulded rubber multi-studded soles must have no sharp edges or ridges;
(5) As from 1st January 1999 an item not bearing the authorised mark of the
IRB shall be presumed to be not in conformity with the requirements of
this Law.
(6) In order to ensure conformity with this Law, a referee or a touch judge
appointed in accordance with Law 6 B (6) must:
(a)	not permit any player to participate in a match if his/her dress or
additional items worn are not in conformity with this Law.
(b)	if any player is found during any match to be wearing an item which does not
conform to this Law than he shall be ordered off the field-of-play under Law
26 (2) (a).
NOTES
(i)	Any player requiring or wishing to wear any dressing, protection, padding or
support or such like material other than that specified within this Law should not
be permitted to play in a match.
(ii)	The referee must not permit any player to leave the playing area in order to
change an item of dress unless these are bloodstained.
Law 5
LAW 5. TOSS, TIME.
No-side is the end of a match.
(1) Before a match begins the captains shall toss for the right to kick-off, or
the choice of ends.
(2)	The duration of play in a match shall be such time not exceeding eighty
minutes as shall be directed by the Union or, in the absence of such direction,
as agreed upon by the teams or, if not agreed, as fixed by the referee. In
International matches two periods of forty minutes each shall be played.
IRB U19 Variation
Section 2: Add to final sentence:
except for Under 19 matches when two periods of thirty-five minutes each
shall be played and no extra time is permitted if this in total then exceeds seventy
minutes”
NOTE
(i) The term “not exceeding eighty minutes” excludes any extra time which
the Union may direct or authorise to be played in the case of a drawn
match in a knock-out competition.
(3)	Play shall be divided into two halves. At half-time the teams shall change
ends and there shall be an interval of not more than ten minutes. The
duration of the interval shall be decided by the Union or the recognised
body having jurisdiction over the game. During the interval the teams, the
referees and the touch judges may leave the playing enclosure,
(4)	A period not exceeding one minute shall be allowed for treatment of an
injury' to a player or for any other permitted delay. A longer period may be
allowed only if the additional time is required for the removal of an injured
player from the playing area.
Playing time lost as a result of any such permitted delay or of delay in
taking a kick at goal or any delay due to the substitution of a player shall be
made up in that half of the match in which the delay occurred, subject to the
power vested in the referee to declare no-side before time has expired.
27
Law 5
NOTE
(ii) The referee must make up lost time through any delay in taking a kick at
goal. This applies whether or not the referee considers the delay to be
“undue delay” on the pan of the kicker.
Playing time lost should begin from 40 seconds after the player has
indicated his intention to kick at goal. The referee must also make up lime
lost through any delay related to Law 6B (6).
28
Law 6
LAW 6. REFEREE AND TOUCH JUDGES.
A. Referee
(1) There shall be a referee for every match. He shall be appointed by or under
the authority of the Union or, in case no such authorised referee has been
appointed, a referee may be mutually agreed upon between the teams or,
failing such agreement, he shall be appointed by the home team.
(2)	If the referee is unable to officiate for the whole period of a match a
replacement shall be appointed either in such manner as may be directed
by the Union, or in the absence of such direction, by the referee or, if he is
unable to do so, by the home team.
(3)	The referee shall keep the time and the score, and he must in every match
apply fairly the Laws of the Game without any variation or omission,
except only when the Union has authorised the application of an
experimental Law approved by the International Board.
NOTES
(i) If the referee is in doubt as to the correct time he should consult either or
both of the touch judges. Only if the information given by them is
insufficient may he consult another person.
(ii) Where the referee allows time for delays the time must be made up in the
half of the match in which the delay occurs.
(iii)	The referee has power to declare no-side before lime has expired if. in his
opinion, the full time cannot for any reason be played or continuance of
play would be dangerous.
(iv)	Where a player is injured, the referee should not allow more than one
minute s delay unless a longer period is necessary to remove the player, or
to give essential treatment on the playing area.
(v)	The referee should not allow time for injury if he has reason to believe that
a player is feigning injury. In such circumstances he should order the
player to be removed immediately from the playing area and then order
play to be resumed forthwith.
(vi)	The referee should, when the ball is dead, allow time for a player to replace
or repair a badly tom jersey or shorts or boots or to re-tie a bool-lace
Law 6
(4)	He must not give any advice prior to the match. During the match he must
not consult with anyone except only:
(a)	either or both touch judges on a point of fact relevant to their duties,
or on matters relating to Law 26 (3), or
(b)	in regard to time.
(5)	During a match the referee is the sole judge of fact and of Law. All his
decisions are binding on the players. He cannot alter a decision unless he
observes that a touch judge's flag is raised or before he has received a
report from either or both of his touch judges relating to Section (4)(a).
(6)	The referee must carry a whistle and must blow it
(a)	to indicate the beginning of the match, half-time, resumption of play
after half-time, no-side, a score or a touch-down and
(b)	to stop play because of infringement or otherwise as required by the
LAWS.
NOTES
(vii)	The referee has power to stop the match at any time by blowing his whistle
but he must not do so except on the occasions indicated in Law 6 A (6)
which include the following:
(a) when he orders a scrummage;
(b) when the ball has gone into touch or touch in-goal, or touched or
crossed the dead-ball lines;
(c)	when the ball has been grounded in In-goal;
(d)	when the ball is unplayable;
(e)	when he stops for an offence under Law 26 (3) pnor to ordering oft or
cautioning the offender, and in such a case must whistle a second time
when he awards the penally try or kick:
(f)	when he awards a penalty kick or free kick:
(g)	when he allows a fair-catch;
(h)	when the ball or player carrying it has touched him and one team has
therefore gained an advantage;
(i)	when a player is injured but only when the ball next becomes dead
unless (j) below applies;
(j)	when continuation of play would be dangerous, including the collapse
of a scrummage
30
Law 6
(viii)	The referee should whistle for half-time or no-side as soon as lime has
expired if the ball be dead or if the ball be in play when (he time has
expired, as soon as the ball next becomes dead. If the ball becomes dead
after time has expired:
(a) as the result of a try the referee shall allow the kick to be taken and
then whistle for half-time or no-side; or if it be
(b) as the result of a fair catch, free kick or penalty kick the referee shall
allow play to proceed until the ball next becomes dead.
If time expires after a scrummage or a line-out has been awarded, play
must be allowed to continue until the ball next becomes dead.
(7)	During a match no person other than the players, the referee and the touch
judges may be within the playing enclosure or the playing area unless with
the permission of the referee which shall be given only for a special and
temporary purpose.
Play may continue during minor injuries with a medically trained person being
permitted to come onto the playing area to attend the player or the player going to the
touch-line. Continuauon of play during minor injuries is subject to the referee's
permission and to his authority to stop play at any lime.
RFU Ruling - March 1988
The provisions of the second paragraph of Section 7 must be applied in all matches
(with the exception of matches between teams aged Under 19 or below) when a
medically trained person is in attendance. While domestic matches between teams
aged Under 19 or below are excluded, in matches at that level involving teams from
other Unions the provisions are to be applied unless it is the policy of the other
Union also to exclude such teams from die provision of this Law.
Before the match, the referee must ascertain whether a medically trained person
is available and, if he is, shall issue appropriate instructions to him and to the
Team Captains.
It is to be noted that in all matches in which these provisions are applied, the
referee has a discretion to stop play at any time. He should do so in cases where
the injury is other than minor or if continuation of play is likely to result in
danger to players.
31
Law 6
At half-time the referee shall allow the coach of each team on to the
playing area to attend their teams.
NOTES
(ix)	If the referee decides to slop play in the terms of Section (7) but without
an infringement having occurred or without the ball being dead, he should
restart play with a scrummage and the ball shall be put in by the team last
in possession or otherwise by the attacking team.
(x)	The referee should, when necessary, but not before he indicates his
permission, allow baggage attendants, doctors or first aid personnel other
than as provided in Section (7) to enter the playing enclosure and playing
area.
(8)	(a) All players must respect the authority of the referee and they must not
dispute his decisions. They must (except in the case of a kick-off) stop
playing at once when the referee has blown his whistle.
(b) A player must when so requested whether before or during the match,
allow the referee to inspect his dress.
(c)	A player must not leave the playing enclosure without the referee’s
permission. If a player retires during a match because of injury or
otherwise, he must not resume playing in that match until the referee
has given his permission.
(d)	A player who has an open or bleeding wound must leave the playing
area until such time as the bleeding is controlled and the wound is
covered or dressed. Such a player may be replaced on a temporary basis
but if unable to resume playing the replacement becomes permanent.
IRB Ruling - December 1993
• If the replacement player is sent off for foul play the player being treated may
not return to the field.
i If the temporary replacement is injured another replacement is permitted.
32
Law 6
NOTE
(xi)	If a player who has retired on account of injury' or other reason resumes
playing without the permission of the referee, the referee should impose
penalties for misconduct if he considers that the oftence was wilful for the
purpose of assisting his team or obstructing die opponents. If the offence
was not wilful interference and if the offending team gains an advantage
the referee should order a scrummage at the place where the player
resumed playing without permission, and die opposing team shall put in
the ball
<£ Penalty: Infringement by a player is subject to penalty as misconduct.
B. Touch Judges.
(1)	There shall be two touch judges for every match. Unless touch judges have
been appointed by or under the authority of the Union, it shall be the
responsibility of each team to provide a touch judge.
(2) A touch judge is under the control of the referee who may instruct him as
to his dudes and may over-rule any of his decisions. The referee may
request that an unsatisfactory touch judge be replaced and he has power to
order off and report to the Union a touch judge who in his opinion is guilty
of misconduct.
(3)	Each touch judge shall cany a flag (or other suitable object) to signal his
decisions. There shall be one touch judge on each side of the ground and
he shall remain in touch except when judging a kick at goal.
(4 He must hold up his flag when the ball or a player carrying it has gone into
touch and must indicate the place of throw in and which team is entitled
to do so. He must also signal to the referee when the ball or a player
carrying it has gone into touch-in-goal.
(5)	The touch judge shall lower his flag when the ball has been thrown in
except on the following occasions when he must keep it raised: -
(a) when the player throwing in the ball puts any part of either foot in
the field-of-play;
33
Law 6
(b) when the ball has not been thrown in by the team entitled to do so;
(c)	when, at a quick throw-in, the ball that went into touch is not used
or. after going into touch and being made dead the ball has been
touched by anyone other than the player throwing it in.
It is for the referee to decide whether or not the ball has been thrown in
from the correct place.
(6)	In matches in which a national representative team is playing and in such
domestic matches for which a Union gives express permission and where
referees recognised by the Union arc appointed as touch judges, the touch
judge shall report incidents of foul play and misconduct under Law 26(3)
to the referee for the match.
A touch judge shall signal such an incident to the referee by raising his flag
to a horizontal position pointing directly across the field at a right angle to
the touch line. The touch judge must remain in touch and continue to carry
out his other functions until the next stoppage in play when the referee
shall consult him regarding the incident. The referee may then take
whatever action he deems appropriate and any consequent penalties shall
be in accordance with Law 26(3).
NOTE
(xii)	After a touch judge has signalled an incident under Law 26(3) he may
enter the ficld-of-play at the next stoppage to report to the referee.
(7)	When a kick at goal from a try or penalty kick is being taken both
touch judges must assist the referee by signalling the result of the kick.
One touch judge shall stand at or behind each of the goal posts and
shall raise his flag if the ball goes over the crossbar.
(8)	Where a reserve touch judge is appointed, the referee's authority regarding
replacements and substitutions may be delegated to him.
34
Law 7
LAW 7. MODE OF PLAY.
A match is started by a kick-off, after which any player who is on-side
and provided he does so in accordance with these Laws may at any time:
o catch or pick up the ball and run with it,
o pass, throw or knock the ball to another player,
o kick or otherwise propel the ball,
o tackle, push or shoulder an opponent holding rhe ball,
o fall on the ball.
o take part in scrummage, ruck, maul or line-out,
o ground the ball in In-goal.
NOTE
(i)	If a player hands the ball to another player of his team without any
propulsion or throwing of die ball, this does constitute a pass.
35
Law 8
LAW 8. ADVANTAGE.
The referee shall not whistle for an infringement during play which is followed
by an advantage gained by the non-offending team. An advantage must be either
territorial or such possession of the ball as constitutes an obvious tactical
advantage. A mere opportunity to gain advantage is not sufficient.
NOTES
(i)	The referee is given a wide discretion as io what constitutes an advantage
and is not limited to a territorial advantage. The referee is the sole judge of
whether an advantage has been gained.
(ii)	Neither team may gain an advantage from the following circumstances:-
(a)	when the ball or a player carrying it touches the referee (Law 9(1));
(b)	when the ball emerges from either end of the tunnel at a scrummage
not having been played (Law 20. note (xix));
(iii)	When any irregularity of play not provided for in the Laws occurs, a
scrummage shall be formed where the irregularity occurred. In deciding
which team should put in the ball, the referee should apply Law 20(7).
36
Law 9
LAW 9. BALL OR PLAYER TOUCHING REFEREE
(1)	If the ball or a player carrying it touches the referee in the ficld-of-play,
play shall continue unless the referee considers either team has gained an
advantage in which case he shall order a scrummage. The team which last
played the ball shall put it in.
(2)	(a) If the ball in a player’s possession or a player carrying it touches the
referee in that player’s In- goal, play shall continue unless the referee
considers an advantage has been gained by that player’s team in which
case a touch-down shall be awarded at the place where the referee was
touched.
(b) If the ball in a player’s possession or a player carrying it touches the
referee in his opponents’ In-goal play shall continue unless the
referee considers an advantage has been gained by that
player's team in which case a try shall be awarded at the
place where the referee was touched
NOTES
(i) If the ball, while in play in In-goal at either end but not held by a player.
touches the referee, a touch judge or a spectator, a touch-down shall be
awarded provided that a touch-down would otherwise have been obtained
or the ball would have gone into touch-in-goal or on or over the
dead-ball line.
(ii) If the ball while in play in In-goal at cither end. but not held by a player.
touches the referee, a touch judge or a spectator, a try shall be awarded at
the place provided an attacking player would otherwise have scored it.
37
Law 10
LAW 10. KICK-OFF.
Kick-off is (a) a place kick taken from the centre of the half-way line by the team
which has the right to start the match or by the opposing team on the resumption of
play after the half-time interval; or(b)a drop kick taken at or from behind the centre
of the half-way line by the defending team after the opposing side has scored.
(1) The ball must be kicked from the correct place and by the correct form
of kick; otherwise it shall be kicked off again.
(2)	The ball must reach the opponents' ten metres line, unless first played
by an opponent; otherwise it shall be kicked off again, or a scrummage
formed at the centre, at the opponents’ option. If it reaches the ten
metres line and is then blown back, play shall continue
(3)	If the ball is kicked directly into touch, the opposing team may accept the kick,
have the ball kicked off again, or have a scrummage formed at the centre.
(4)	If the ball crosses the opposing team’s goal-line from a kick-off. without
touching or being touched by a player, the opposing team has the option of
grounding the ball, making it dead, or playing on. If the opposing team
grounds the ball or makes it dead or the ball becomes dead by touch-in-
goal or by touching or crossing the dead ball line, they will have the option
of cither having a scrummage formed at the centre of the half-way line,
with the put in, or having the other team kick-off again.
(5)	The kicker's team must be behind the ball when kicked; otherwise a
scrummage shall be formed at the centre.
(6)	The opposing team must stand on or behind the ten metres line. If they
are in front of that line or if they charge before the ball has been kicked, it
shall be kicked off again.
NOTES
(>) The option in Section (4) must be exercised without delay and if a
defending player after gathering the ball in-goal, runs with it or passes it.
he has taken the option to play on
(ii) The use of sand, sawdust or an approved kicking lee is permitted for
placing the ball.
38
Law 11
LAW 11. METHOD OF SCORING.

Try. A try is scored by first grounding the ball in the opponents' In-goal.
A Penalty try shall be awarded if one would probably have been scored but for
foul play by the opposing team.
Goal. A goal is scored by kicking the ball over the opponents’ cross-bar and
between the goal posts from the field-of-play by any place kick or drop kick,
except a kick-off, drop-out or free-kick, without touching the ground or any
player of the kicker’s team.
A goal is scored if the ball has crossed the bar, even though it may have been
blown backwards afterwards, and whether it has touched the cross-bar or either
goal post or not.
A goal is scored if the ball has crossed the bar notwithstanding a prior offence of
the opposing team.
A goal may be awarded if the ball is illegally touched by any player of the
opposing team and if the would otherwise probably have been scored.
The scoring values are as follows: -
A try
A goal scored after a try
A goal from a penalty kick
A dropped goal otherwise obtained but not from a
free kick or after a scrum taken in lieu of a free kick
5 points
2 points
3 points
3 points
39
Law 12
LAW 12. TRY AND TOUCH-DOWN.
Grounding the ball is the act of a player who:
(a)	while holding the ball in his hand (or hands) or arm (or arms) brings the
ball in contact with the ground, or
(b)	while the ball is on the ground either:
o places his hand (or hands) or arm (or arms) on it with downward
pressure: or
© falls upon it and the ball is anywhere under the front of his body
from waist to neck inclusive.
Picking up the ball from the ground is not grounding it.
A.	Try.
(1)	A player who is on-side scores a try when:
he carries the ball into his opponents’ In-goal; or the ball is in
his opponents’ In-goal
AND he first grounds it there.
(2)	The scoring of a try' includes the following cases: -
(a)	if a player carries, passes, knocks or kicks the ball into his In-goal and
an opponent first grounds it;
(b)	if, at a scrummage or ruck, a team is pushed over its goal line and
before the ball has emerged it is first grounded in In-goal by an
attacking player;
(c)	if the momentum of a player, when tackled, carries him into his
opponents’ In-goal and he first there grounds the ball;
(d)	if a player first grounds the ball on his opponents’ goal line or if the
ball is in contact with the ground and a goal post,
(e)	if a tackle occurs in such a position that the tackled player whilst
complying with the Law is able to place the ball on or over the
goal line,
(3)	If a player grounds the ball in his opponents’ In-goal and picks it up
again, a try is scored where it was first grounded
40
Law 12
(4)	A try may be scored by a player who is in touch or in touch-in-goal
provided he is not carrying the ball.
B.	Penalty Try.
A penalty try shall be awarded between the posts if but for foul play by the
defending team:
o a try would probably have been scored; or
o it would probably have been scored in a more favourable position than that
where the ball was grounded.
C.	Touch-Down.
(I) A touch-down occurs when a player first grounds the ball in his In-goal.
(2)	After a touch-down play shall be restarted either by a drop-out or a
scrummage.
D.	Scrummage after Grounding In Case of Doubt.
Where there is doubt as to which team first grounded the ball in In-goal, a
scrummage shall be formed five metres from the goal line opposite the place
where the ball was grounded. The attacking team shall put in the ball.
41
Law 13
LAW 13. KICK AT GOAL AFTER A TRY.
(1) After a try has been scored, the scoring team has the right to take a place
kick or drop kick at goal, on a line through the place where the try
was scored.
(2) If a kick is taken: -
(a)	it must be taken without undue delay;
(b)	any player including the kicker may place the ball;
(c)	the kicker’s team. except the placer, must be behind the ball when kicked;
(d)	the opposing team must be behind the goal line until the kicker
begins his run or offers to kick when they may charge or jump with a
view to preventing a goal.
(3)	Neither the kicker nor a placer shall wilfully do anything which may lead
the opposing team to charge prematurely. If either does so, the charge
shall not be disallowed.
Penalty.-
o For an infringement by the kicker’s team - the kick shall be disallowed.
o For an infringement by the opposing team - the charge shall be
disallowed. If, however, die kick has been taken successfully, the goal
shall stand. If it was unsuccessful, die kicker may take another kick under
the original conditions without the charge and may change die type of kick.
NOTES
(i)	In addition to the general provision regarding waste of time, the kicker is
bound to kick without delay, under penalty.
A player should not be permitted to be unreasonably slow in taking any
kick at goal. A period of one minute between the indication of intention to
kick at goal and die actual kick is well inside the zone of "undue delay .
A player who is unreasonably slow, should be warned that if he persists in
delay, penalties will be applied.
Even without a caution, if the delay is clearly a breach of Law, the kick
should be disallowed and a kick-off ordered.
42
Law 13
(ii)	The referee must always make up lime lost by any delay in taking the kick,
as is provided for in note (ii) under Law 5.
(iii)	The referee should see that the opposing players do not gradually creep up
and that they have both feci behind the goal line, otherwise he should
disallow the charge.
(iv)	Shouting by the defending team during a kick at goal should be treated as
misconduct and. if no goal is scored, another kick should be allowed
without the charge.
(v)	When another kick is allowed for any reason, all the original preliminaries
may be retaken.
(vi)	If the ball rolls dver and away from the line through the place where the
try was scored and the ball is kicked over the crossbar, a goal should
be awarded.
(vii)	If. after the kicker has commenced his run. the ball rolls over into touch
another kick under the original conditions should not be allowed.
(viii)	The kick must be'taken with the ball which was in play unless the referee
decides that the ball is defective.
(ix)	The use of sand, sawdust or an approved kicking tee is permitted for
placing the ball.
Law 14
LAW 14. IN-GOAL
In-goal is the area bounded by a goal-line, touch-in-goal lines and dead-ball
line. It includes the goal-lines and goal posts but excludes touch-in-goal lines
and dead-ball line.
Touch-in-goal occurs when the ball or player carrying it touches a comer-post
or a touch-in-goal line or the ground or a person or object on or beyond it. The
flag is not part of the comer post.
Five Metres Scrummage
(1) A five metre scrummage is a scrummage formed five metres from the
goal-line opposite the place where the ball became dead in In-goal, but no
closer than five metres from the touch line.
(2)	If a player carrying the ball in In-goal is so held that he cannot ground the
ball, die ball becomes dead.
NOTE
(i) If play similar to a maul takes place in In-goal. Law 14(2) applies.
(3)	A five metre scrummage shall be formed and the attacking team shall
put in die ball:
(a) if a defending player heels, kicks, carries, passes or knocks the ball
into his In-goal, and it there becomes dead without an infringement
having occurred, except where:
a try is scored; or
he wilfully knocks or throws the ball from the field-of-play into
touch-in-goal or over his dead ball line; or
(b) if a defending player carrying the ball in the field-of-play is forced into
his In-goal and he then touches down; or
(c)	if, at a scrummage or ruck a defending team, with the ball in its
Law 14
possession, is pushed over its goal-line and before the ball has
emerged first grounds it in In-goal.
(4)	As a result of an infringement by the attacking team in In-goal for which
the penalty is a scrummage the defending team shall put the ball in.
NOTE
(ii) If from a free kick or penalty kick taken in In-goal the ball is made dead
by the defending team before it has crossed the goal-line, a scrummage
shall be awarded to the attacking team five metres from the goal-line
opposite to where it was made dead.
Drop-Out.
(5)	Except where the ball is knocked on or thrown forward in the field of play
or in In-goal, if an attacking player kicks, carries, passes or charges down
the ball from an opponent's kick and it travels into his opponents’ In-goal,
either directly or having touched a defender who does not wilfully attempt
to stop, catch or kick it, and it is there:
o grounded by a defending player; or
• goes into touch-in-goal or over the dead-ball-linc;
a drop-out shall be awarded.
-C Penalty
(a) A penalty try' shall be awarded when by foul play in In-goal the defending
team has prevented a try which otherwise would probably have been scored.
(b) A try shall be disallowed and a penalty kick awarded, if a try would
probably not have been gained but for foul play by the attacking team.
(c)	For foul play in In-goal while the ball is out of play the penalty kick shall
be awarded at the place where play would otherwise have restarted and, in
addition, the player shall either be ordered off or cautioned that he will be
sent off if he repeats the offence.
Law 14
(d)	For wilfully charging or obstructing in In-goal a player who has just
kicked the ball the penalty shall be.
a penalty kick tn the field-of-play five metres from the goal-line opposite
the place of infringement, or, at
the option of the non-offending team, a penally kick where the ball alights
as provided under Law 26 (3) Penalty (ii) (b).
(e)	For other infringements in In-goal, the penally shall be the same as for a
similar infringement in the field-of-play except that the mark for a penally
kick or free kick shall be in the field-of-play five metres from the goal line
opposite the place of infringement and the place of any scrummage shall
be five metres from the goal-line opposite the place of infringement but
not within five metres of the touch line.
NOTE
(lii) When the ball has been made dead as provided under Law 15(7) a drop out
may be awarded.
(iv) Section (5) applies when the defending player has part of either foot on
or behind the goal-line
Law 15
LAW 15. DROP-OUT.
A drop-out is a drop kick awarded to the defending team.
(1) The drop kick must be taken from anywhere on or behind the twenty-two
metres line; otherwise the ball shall be dropped out again.
(2) The drop kick must be taken without delay.
'■ £ Penalty: Free kick on the 22 metres line.
(3)	The ball must cross the twenty-two metres line, otherwise the opposing
team may have it dropped out again, or have a scrummage formed at the
centre of the twenty-two metres line. If it crosses the twenty-two metres
line and is then blown back, play shall continue.
NOTE
(i)	The advantage Law applies where the drop kick does not reach the twenty
two-metres line
(4)	If the ball is kicked directly into touch, the opposing team may accept the
kick, have the ball dropped out again, or have a scrummage formed at the
centre of the twenty-two metres line.
(5)	The kicker’s team must be behind the ball when kicked. However, retiring
players of the kicker’s team who are in front of the ball will not be
penalised if their failure to retire is due to the rapidity with which the kick
has been taken but they must not stop retiring and must not enter the game
until they have been made on-side by an action of their own team as
required by Law 25(1).
Penalty: Scrummage at the centre of the 22 metres line and the
opposing team shall put in the ball.
(6)	The opposing team must not charge over the twenty-two metres line-
otherwise the ball shall be dropped out again.
Law 15
(7)	When the ball has been made dead by a team from a kick, other than an
unsuccessful penalty kick at goal or a dropped goal attempt, which goes
into touch-in-goal or on or over the dead ball line, the defending team will
have the option of a drop-out or of a scrummage. If a scrummage is
chosen, the scrummage will be ordered at the place from where the ball
was kicked but not be less than five metres from the touch-line.
NOTE
(ii) If a player of the opposing learn remains beyond or crosses the twenty-two
metres line for the purpose of delaying or interfering with the player who
is about to drop-out. a penalty under Law 26(3)(i) should be awarded.
48
Law 16
LAW 16. FAIR-CATCH (MARK)
(a)	A player makes a fair-catch when, in his twenty-two metres area or in
his In-goal, he cleanly catches the ball direct from a kick, other than a
kick-ojf, by one of his opponents and at the same time he exclaims
"Mark”. A fair catch may be obtained even though the ball on its way
touches a goal post or crossbar.
(b)	A free kick is awarded for a fair-catch.
(1) The free kick must be taken by the player making the fair catch, unless he
is injured in so doing. If he is unable to take the kick within one minute a
scrummage shall be formed at the mark. His team shall put in the ball.
(2) If the mark is in In-goal any resultant scrummage shall be five metres from
the goal line on a line through the mark.
NOTE
(i) If an opponent unfairly charges the catcher in the playing area after the
referee has blown his whistle for a fair catch, a penalty kick shall
be awarded.
Law 17
LAW 17. KNOCK-ON OR THROW-FORWARD.
A knock-on occurs when the ball travels forward towards the direction of the
opponents' dead-ball line after: -
• a player loses possession of it; or
O a player propels or strikes it with his hand or ann; or
9 it strikes a player's hand or ami and touches the ground or another
player before it is recovered by the player.
A throw-forward occurs when a player carrying the ball throws or passes it in
the direction of his opponents’ dead-ball line. A throw-in from touch is not a
throw-forward. If the ball is not thrown or passedforward but it bounces forward
after hitting a player or the ground, it is not a throw-forward.
NOTE
(i)	A pass, throw or knock-on should not be adjudged an infringement unless
it is clearly so under Law. If there is any doubt, play should be allowed
to proceed.
(1) The knock-on or throw forward must not be intentional.
' Penalty:- Penalty kick at the place of infringement or in accord
with Law 14. Penalty (e). A penalty try may be awarded.
(2)	If the knock-on or throw-forward is unintentional, a scrummage shall be
formed:
(a)	at the place of infringement; or
(b)	if it occurs at a line-out, 15 metres from the touch-line along the line
of touch; or
• (c) if it occurs in In-goal, five metres from the goal-line in line with the
infringement, but not closer titan five metres from the touch-line unless...
50
Law 17
• the ball is knocked on by a player who is in the act of charging
down the kick of an opponent but is not attempting to catch the
ball; or
o the ball is knocked on one or more times by a player who is in the act
of catching or picking it up or losing possession of it and is recovered
by that player before it has touched the ground or another player
NOTE
F
If an attacking player knocks-on or throws forward in the field-of-play and
the ball travels into In-goal either directly or after having touched a
defender who does not wilfully attempt to stop, catch or kick it. and it is there:
(a) grounded by a player of either team; or
(b) goes into touch-in-goal or over the dead-ball line, a scrummage should be
awarded at the place of die place of the knock-on or throw-forward.
__________________________________________________________Law 18
LAW 18. TACKLE, LYING WITH, ON OR NEAR THE BALL.
A tackle occurs when a player carrying the ball in the field-of-play is held by one
or more opponents so that while he is so held he is brought to the ground or the
ball comes into contact with the ground. If the ball carrier is on one knee, or both
knees, or is sitting on the ground, or is on top of another player who is on the
ground, the ball carrier is deemed to have been brought to the ground.
IRB Ruling - July 1982
A player is "held” if he is grasped by an opponent with an arm or anus or hand
or hands to any pan of his body, amis or legs or any part of his dress.
(1) (a) A tackled player must immediately
pass the ball
or
release the ball
and
get up or move away from the ball.
(b) Any player who tackles an opponent and. in doing so, goes to ground
in the same way as the tackled player, must immediately, release
the tackled player
and
gel up or move away from the tackled player and the ball.
He must not play the ball until he is on his feet.
(c)	After a tackle any other player must be on his feet when he plays the
ball. A player is on his feet if no other part of his body is supported by
the ground or by players lying on die ground.
IRB Ruling - 1992 "
The requirement of Law 18 (1) (c) relates to the first player to play the ball after
a tackle. No distance is specified for the ball to be from the tackle but if the ba
has travelled into In-goal there is no requirement for a player who forces the ba
to be on his feet (refer NOTE (v)).
52
Law 18
(d)	A player who goes to the ground and gathers the ball or with the ball
in his possession but who is not tackled must immediately get up on
his feet with the ball
or
pass the ball
or
release the ball
and
get up or move away from the ball
(2) It is illegal for any player:-
(a) to prevent a tackled player from passing or releasing the ball, or
getting up or moving away after he has passed or released it;
(b) to pull the ball from a tackled player’s possession or attempt to pick
up the ball before the tackled player has released it;
(c)	while lying on the ground after a tackle to play or interfere with the
ball in any way or to tackle or attempt to tackle an opponent carrying
the ball;
(d)	to wilfully fall on or over a player lying on the ground with the ball
in his possession;
(e)	to wilfully fall on or over players lying on the ground with the ball
between them, or in close proximity; or
RFU U19 Interpretation
A player is assumed to have fallen wilfully unless the referee is absolutely
certain the fall was accidental. When the referee is absolutely certain that the fall
is accidental, play must be stopped and a scrummage awarded.
(f)	while lying on the ground in close proximity to the ball to prevent an
opponent from gaining possession of it.
(g)	while on his feet to charge or obstruct an opponent who is not in close
proximity to the ball.
Law 18
<V Penalty:- Penalty kick at the place of infringement.
(3)	A try may be scored if the momentum of a player carries him into his
opponent’s In-goal even though he is tackled.
NOTES
(i)	The requirement to release the ball allows a player to put the ball on
the ground in any direction or to push it along the ground (but not in a
forward direction), provided the action is immediate.
(ii)	It is not a tackle if the ball carrier is lifted by an opponent so that both
his feet arc off the ground.
(iii)If a tackled player does not pass or release the ball immediately and
the referee is in doubt as to responsibility for failure to pass or release
it. he .should at once order a scrummage
(iv)If a tackle occurs in such a position that the tackled player whilst
complying with the Law, is able to place the ball on or over the goal
line he may do so to obtain a try or a touch-down. In such
circumstances an opposing player may attempt to prevent the try or
touch-down by pulling the ball from the player in possession, but must
not kick the ball.
1RB Ruling - January 1996
The opposing player attempting to prevent the try by pulling the ball from the
player in possession must be on his feet
(v)	If a tackle occurs near the goal line, and die ball, having been released
by the tackled player, goes into die In-goal, any player of cither team
may ground the ball and need not be on his feel in these circumstances.
(vi)	Danger may arise if a tackled player fails to pass or release or move
away from the ball at once or is prevented from doing so. In such cases
the referee should not delay in awarding a penalty kick.
(vii)Advantage shall be played only if it occurs immediately.
54
Law 18
RFU U19 Interpretation
NO advantage shall be played under this Law.
(viii)	Close proximity means within one metre.
■
. 55
Law 19
LAW 19. LYING WITH, ON OR NEAR THE BALL.
The requirements of this Law are now incorporated into Law 18.
56
Law 20
LAW 20. SCRUMMAGE
A scrummage, which can take place only in the field - of - play, is formed
by players from each team closing up in readiness to allow the ball l0
be put on the ground between them but is not formed within five metres
of the touch line
IRB U19 Variation
.... or within five metres of the goal line.
The middle player in each front row is the hooker, and the players on either side
of him are the props.
The middle line means an imaginary line on the ground directly beneath the line
formed by the junction of the shoulders of the two front rows.
If the ball in a scrummage is on or over the goal line the scrummage is ended.
-
L
Forming a Scrummage
F.K. (1) A team must not wilfully delay the forming of a scrummage
F.K. (2) Every scrummage shall be formed at the place of
infringement or as near thereto as is practicable within the
field-of-play. It must be stationary with the middle line
parallel to the goal lines until the ball has been put in.
Before commencing engagement each front row must be in
a crouched position with heads and shoulders no lower than
their hips and so that they are within one arm’s length of the
opponents' shoulders.
In the interests of safety, each front row should engage in the
sequence of crouch, then pause and only engage on die call
engage" given by the referee.
___________________________________________________________________Law 20 57 ’9
IRB Ruling on the U19 Standard Variations - December 1993
Replace the previous paragraph with the following:
In the interests of safety each prop should touch on their opponent’s upper arm
then pause prior to engagement in the sequence: crouch, touch, pause and
engage.
RFU U19 Interpretation
In the interests of safely and where thought to be necessary, referees should talk
the scrum down through the crouch, touch, pause, engage sequence.
notes
(i) To the extent that it is necessary, the scrummage is to be moved from
the place of infringement so (hat the scrummage is formed in the
field-of-play and the feet of all defending players in the scrummage
are in the Held of play.
(ii)	When the place of infringement is within five metres of a touch line
the scrummage is to be formed five metres from that touch line.
IRB UI9 Variation
Replace Note (ii) with the following:
When the place of infringement is within five metres of a touch line or a
goal line the scrummage is to be formed five metres from that touch line
or goal line respectively.
RFU Ruling - September 1982
The words “five metres from that touch line" mean that all feet in the scrummage
must be beyond the in-field side of the five metres line. _____ ____
(iii)The referee shall mark the place of engagement with his fool before
the scrummage is formed.
(iv)	A crouched position is the extension of die normal stance by bending
the knees sufficiently to step into the engagement without a charge.
Law 20
p.K. (3) It is dangerous play for a front row to form down some
distance from its opponents and rush against litem.
NOTE
(v)	The referee should not call the front rows to engage until the ball is in
the hands of the player pulling in the ball and is available to be put in
immediately. This call is not a command, but an indication dial the
front rows may engage when ready.
£ P.K. (4)Eight players from each team shall be required at all times to
form a scrummage. While the scrummage is taking place the
number of these players shall not be changed. These players
shall remain bound in the scrummage until it ends. Each front
row of a scrummage shall have three players in it at all times.
The head of a player in the front row shall not be next to the
head of a player of the same team.
IRB Ruling - November 1982
After the ball has been put into a scrummage but before it has emerged, ii is
illegal for players in a front row to break away and stand up in order to counter
a wheel or similar manoeuvre by the opposing team.
Exception:
(a)	When lor any reason the number of players in a team is reduced to less
than fifteen players, the number of players of each team in the
scrummage may be similarly reduced. Any reduction must not be such
that the number of players for any team in the scrummage is less than
five. Where a permitted reduction is made by one team, there is no
requirement for the other team to make a similar reduction.
(b)	In the case of non-contested scrummages the provisions of Law 3(12)
shall apply.
Law 20
IRB U19 Variation
Replace Section 4 above with the following items (a) to (f)
(a)	In an eight-man scrummage the formation must be 3-4-1 with a single
player at the back normally the number 8) packing between the two
locks who must pack with their heads cither side of the hooker.
(b)	Throughout the duration of a scrummage there must be 8 players from
each side in the scrummage except when these numbers arc reduced by:
• Availability
• A player or players ordered off under Law 26
• Injury
(c)	Even allowing for the exception in (b) there must never be less than 5
players from each team in a scrummage.
(d)	The composition of a scrummage if a team is unable to field a
complete team or maintain a complete team for any reason shall be:
® If one team is 1 short, then both scrummages must be a 34 formation
• If one team is 2 short, then both scrummages must be a 3-2-1 formation
• If one team is 3 short, then both scrummages must be a 3-2 formation.
(e)	However, in respect of the three front row positions and the two lock
positions in the middle row, should a team:
• be unable to provide suitably trained replacements for an injured
player or players
be unable to field suitably trained players at the commencement of
or during a match because of the lack of availability of players
• have one or more of the five designated players sent off under Law
26 AND be unable to replace them with, suitably trained playcis
from the remaining players, the referee must order a non-contestable
or simulated scrummage which is a normal scrummage situation
except:
• there is no contest for the ball
• the team putting in the ball must win it
• neither team is permitted to push.
60
Law 20
1RB Ruling on the U19 Standard Variations
In representative rugby where a team cannot find suitable front five playi
before the match commences the match shall be forfeited. In all other
friendly' matches the non-contested scrum may be acceptable.
(f)	There shall not be more than 8 players in a scrummage.
Penalty. Free kick at the place of infringement.
F.K. (5)(a) While a scrummage is forming:
• the shoulders of each player in the front row must not be lower
than his hips:
• all players in each front row must adopt a normal stance;
• both feet must be on the ground and not crossed,
• the hookers must be in a hooking position,
RFU U19 Interpretation
Referees should be especially vigilant to ensure that the hookers are in a
hooking position.
• a hooker’s foot must not be in front of the forward feet of his props.
RFU U19 Interpretation
Any player at any stage in the scrum who has or causes an opponent to have,
his shoulders lower than his hip joint must immediately be penalised by
awarding a Free Kick.
(b) While the scrummage is taking place, players in each front row
must have their weight firmly on at least one foot and be in a
position for an effective forward shove and the shoulders of eac
player must not be lower than his hips.
Law 20
NOTES
(vi)	The restriction on the crossing of the feel of the players in the fron
rows refers only to the feet of individual players. The feet of all players
in the front rows must be in a position for an effective forward shove.
(vii)	A hooking position is where a hooker in the scrummage has both
feet on the ground, the weight retained firmly on one foot and in a
position to hook or strike the ball
(viii)	A flank forward in the second or third row of a scrummage may
pack at an angle provided he is properly bound. If the ball is emerging
from the back of the scrummage and he moves outwards, thereby
preventing an opponent from advancing around the scrummage, a
penally kick should be awarded.
(ix)	In the event of a scrummage collapsing the referee should whistle
immediately so that players do not continue to push. The referee should
also whistle immediately if any player in the scrummage is lifted off his
feet or is forced upwards out of the scrummage.
(x)	The scrummage is ended
if the ball in the scrummage is on or over the goal-line
when the ball emerges from the scrummage
if, in the scrummage, a player whose feet are the "hindmost' feel in that
scrummage, has the ball at litis feet, unbinds and picks up the ball.
Binding of Players
P. K.(6) (a) The players of each front row shall bind firmly and
continuously while the scrummage is forming, while the ball is being
put in and while it is in the scrummage.
P K (b) The hooker may bind either over or under the arms of his
props but. in either case, he must bind firmly around their bo les at or
below the level of the armpits. The props must bind the hooker
similarly. The hooker must not be supported so that he is not carrying
any weight on either foot.
Law 20
1RB Ruling - January' 1996
The hooker must bind in the same manner with each prop.
P.K. (c)The outside (loose head) prop must cither (i) bind his
opposing (tight head) prop with his left arm inside the right
arm of his opponent, or (ii) place his left hand or forearm on
his left thigh. The tight-head prop must bind with his right arm
outside the left upper arm of his opposing loose-head prop.
He must grip the jersey (not the sleeve or arm) of his opposing
loose head prop with his right hand and he must not exert a
downward pressure.
P K (d) Any player in a scrummage who is not a front row player must
bind with one arm around one of the locks. Each lock must
bind with the prop immediately in front of him. All
participating players shall bind firmly and continuously while
the scrummage is taking place.
r \ F.K (e) No outside player other than a prop may hold an opponent
with his outer arm.
Putting the Ball Into the Scrummage
(7) When an infringement occurs the team not responsible shall put in the ball.
In other circumstances the put-in shall be awarded:
(a )as provided by the Laws,
(b) if not provided by the Laws, to the team moving forward prior to the
stoppage; or
(c)	if neither team is moving forward, to the attacking team.
NOTE
(xi)	It is permissible for the outside (loose-head) prop to alter his binding with
his left arm. within the provisions of Law 20(6)(c), at any time during a
scrummage.
63
99
Law 20
F.K.(8) The ball shall be put in without delay as soon as the two
front rows have closed together. A team must put in the ball
when ordered to do so and on the side first chosen.
NOTES
(xii)	In the interests of safely, the referee has authority to permit delay in
pulling in the ball if a player in the front row has not succeeded in gening
his head down in the scrummage but otherwise he should ensure that there
is no delay
(xiii)	A free kick should be awarded if the referee is satisfied that the delay by
the team in putting the ball in is deliberate and prejudices the oilier team.
( EK. (9)The player putting in the ball shall:
(a) stand one metre from the scrummage on the middle line between the
two front rows;
(b) hold the ball with both hands over the middle line between the two
front rows at a level midway between his knee and ankle;
(c) from that position put in the ball:
• without any delay or without feint or backward movement, i.e with
a single forward movement; and
• at a quick speed straight along the middle line so that it first touches
the ground immediately beyond the width of the nearer prop s
shoulders.
(10) Play in the scrummage begins when the ball leaves the hands of the player
putting it in.
(11) If the ball is put in and it comes out at either end of the tunnel, it shall
be put in again, unless a free kick or penalty kick has been awarded. If the
ball comes out otherwise than at either end of the tunnel and if a penalty
kick has not been awarded play shall proceed.
note
(xiv)	Advantage applies as soon as the ball has been put into die scrummage and played.
64
Law 20
Restrictions on Front Row Players
F.K. (12) All front row players must place their feet so as to allow a
clear tunnel. A player must not prevent the ball being put
into the scrummage, or from touching the ground at the
required place.
F.K. (13) No front row player may raise or advance a foot until the
ball has left the hands of the player putting it into the
scrummage.
NOTE
Until any fool is permitted to be raised or advanced, that foot must be kept
in the normal position.
(xv)
When the ball has touched the ground, any foot of any player in either
front row may be used in an attempt to gain possession of the ball subject
to the following: -
players in the front rows must not at any time during the scrummage,
wilfully:-
P.K. (a) raise both feet off the ground at the same time; or
P.K (b)adopt a position or take any action, by twisting or lowering
the body or by pulling on an opponent’s dress, which is
likely to cause the scrummage to collapse; or
RFU U19 Interpretation
In the event of one front row being stronger than the other, referees should
mindful to instruct the stronger pack to reduce the power of their shove
sufficiently to ensure the opposing front row are able to stay on their feet.
65
■9
Law 20
P.K (c) lift an opponent off his feet or force him upwards out of the
scrummage; or
F.K. (d)kick the ball out of the tunnel in the direction from which it
is put in.
NOTES
(xvi) The prohibition against a player in the front row raising both feet off the
ground at the same time or striking at the ball with both feet appliesduring
the whole scrummage and not merely to the period while the ball is being
put in.
(xvii) Referees must be strict in applying penalties for wilfully kicking out.
Repeated kicking out must be treated as wilful.
(xviii) When the referee orders the ball to be put in again it must be put in by a
player of the same team that was first entitled to do so.
(xix) If the ball is about to pass straight through the tunnel and a far prop
advances a foot so that the ball passes behind the foot, the ball must be
put in again unless it has been lawfully played (i.e. touched) by a player
in the front row.
66
Law 20
Restrictions on Players
F.K (15) Any player who is not in either front row must not play ih
ball while it is in the tunnel.
(16) A player must not: -
F.K. (a) return the ball into the scrummage; or
P.K. (b) handle the ball in the scrummage except in the act o
obtaining a “push over” try or touchdown; or
P.K. (c) pick up the ball in the scrummage by hand or legs; or
P.K. (d) wilfully collapse the scrummage; or
P.K. (e) wilfully fall or kneel in the scrummage; or
F.K. (f) attempt to gain possession of the ball in the scrummage with
any part of the body
except die foot or lower leg;
P.K. (g) fall on or over the ball emerging from a scrummage.
NOTE
(xx) Referees must be strict in penalising for the wilful collaf
scrummage as stated under Law 20(16)(d) and Law 26(3)(b).
67 9
Law 20
PK. (17) (a)
F.K. (b)
Hie player putting in the ball and his immediate
opponent must not kick the ball while it is in the
scrummage.
Neither of the players referred to in (a) should take any
action while the ball is in the scrummage to convey to
the opponents that the ball is out of the scrummage.
IRB Ruling - October 1979, refined March 1985
If the scrum half following the ball around a scrummage, places his hand or
’ hands on any opposing player and variously uses him to obtain leverage or
I assistance or grasps his jersey, he should be penalised for misconduct under Law
(18) A scrummage must not be wheeled beyond a position where the middle
line becomes parallel to the touch-line. The scrummage will be reformed
at the site of the stoppage, the ball to be put in by the side that has gained
possession or otherwise by the same team.
IRB U19 Variation
Replace Section 18 above with a Section 18 as follows:
(18) A Scrummage must not be wilfully wheeled.
Penalty:- Penalty kick at the place of infringement
NOTE
(xxi) If a player repeatedly infringes he must be dealt with under Law 26(2).
68
Law 20
IRB U19 Variation
Add as a Note (xxii) - The referee should stop play if the unintentional wheel
reaches 45 degrees. If it is wilful he will award a penalty kick, but if it h
unintentional the scrummage will be reformed at the site of stoppage.
Penalty: (a) For an infringement of paragraphs (1), (2), (5), (6)(e),(8)
(9), (12), (13), (14) (d), (15), (16) (a) and (f) and(17) (a) and
(b) ,a free kick at the place of infringement
(b) For an infringement of paragraphs (3), (4), (6) (a) (b) (c)
and (d), (14) (a)(b) and (c) .or (16)(b)(c)(d)(e) and (g), a
penalty kick at the place of infringement
IRB U19 Variation
(19) Release of die ball
It is illegal to push the opposing scrummage more than 1.5 metres from the
original line towards either goal-line. A player must not hold the ball wilfully
in the scrummage once control is established at the base of the scrummage.
Penalty:- Free Kick at the place of infringement
For Off-side at Scrummage sec Law 24B
Law 21
LAW 21. RUCK.
A nick which can take place only in the field-of-play. is fanned when the ball is
on the ground and one or more players from each team are on their feet and in
physical contact, closing around the ball between them.
Rucking is the act of a player who, in a nick, is using his feet to retrieve or retain
the ball without contravening Law 26.
If the ball in a nick is on or over the goal line the nick is ended.
(1)	Players forming, joining or participating in a ruck must have their
heads and shoulders no lower than their hips and be on their feet. A
player joining a ruck must bind with at least one arm around the body
of a player of his team in the ruck.
w Penalty:- Free kick at the place of infringement.
RFU U19 Interpretation
Rucks may move forward provided that the players in the ruck are on their feet
RFU U19 Interpretation
Any player at any stage m the, ruck who has or causes an opponent to have,
his shoulders lower than
his hip joint must immediately be penalised by awarding a Free Kick.
note
(i)	The placing of a hand on another player is not binding. Binding
involves the whole arm, from hand to shoulder.
70
Law 21
(2)	A player must not: -

EK. (a) return the ball into the ruck.

EK. (b)take any action while the ball is in the ruck to convey to the
opponents that the ball is out of the ruck
Penalty:- Free kick at the place of infringement
P.K (c) handle the ball in the ruck except in the act of securing a try or
touch-down; or
P.K. (d)pick up the ball in the ruck by hand or legs; or

P.K. (e) wilfully collapse the ruck; or
RFU UI9 Interpretation:
Referees should be particularly vigilant of any attempt of the team not in
possession to collapse the ruck.
P.K. (f) jump on top of other players in the ruck; or
PK. (g) wilfully fall or kneel in the ruck; or
P.K. (h) while lying on the ground interfere in any way with the ball in
or emerging from the ruck. He must do his best to roll away
from it.
P.K. (i) fall on or over the ball emerging from a ruck.
Law 21
Penalty:- For (c) to (i) a penalty kick at the place of infringement.
NOTE
(ii)	Players’ safely is of primary importance and players should ruck for the
ball and not the players on the ground. Players rucking for the ball should
attempt to step over other players lying on the ground and should not
intentionally step on (hem. Players must ruck in close proximity to the ball.
(3)	When the ball m a ruck becomes unplayable a scrummage shall be ordered
and the ball put in by the team moving forward immediately prior to the
stoppage. When neither team was moving forward or when the referee is
unable to determine which team was moving forward prior to the
stoppage, the ball shall be put in by :
(a)	the team moving forward immediately before the formation of the
ruck; or
(b)	if no team was moving forward, the ball shall be put in by the
attacking team.
NOTE
(iii)	Before whistling for a scrummage the referee should allow a reasonable
lime for the ball to emerge from the ruck particularly if either learn is
moving forward. If the ruck becomes stationary or in the opinion of the
referee the ball will probably not emerge from the ruck without delay, he
should order a scrummage.
For Off-side at Ruck see Law 24C.
72
Law 22
LAW 22. MAUL
A maul, which can take place only in the Jteld-of-play, is formed by one or more
players from each team on their feet and in physical contact closing round a
player who is in possession of the ball.
A maul ends when the ball is on the ground or the ball or a player carrying it
emerges from the maul or when a scrummage is ordered.
If the ball in a maul is on or over the goal line the maul is ended.
IRB Ruling - December 1993
Il is legal to hold an opponent in a maul. A player is permitted to leave a maul so
that, in some circumstances, it is no longer a maul.
(1)	A player joining a maul must have his head and shoulders no lower than
his hips.
£
Penalty:- Free kick at the place of infringement
RFU U19 Interpretation
Mauls may move forward provided that the players in the maul are on their feet
RFU U19 Interpretation
Any player at any stage in the maul who has or causes an opponent to have, his
shoulders lower than his hip joint must immediately be penalised by awarding a
Free Kick.
(2)	A player must not: -
(a) jump on top of players in a maul;
(b) wilfully collapse a maul;
73
RFU CJ19 Interpretation:
Referees should be particularly vigilant of any attempt of the
possession to collapse the maul.
team not in
(c)	attempt to drag an opponent out of a maul.
Penalty: Penalty kick at the place of infringement
(d)	take any action while the ball is in the maul to convey to the opponents
that the ball is out of the maul.
Penalty: Free kick at the place of infringement
(3)	A player is not in physical contact unless he is caught in or bound to the
maul and not merely alongside it.
(4)	(a) When a maul remains stationary or stops moving forward or collapses
(not subject to Law 26(3)(h)) or the ball in a maul becomes
unplayable, a scrummage shall be ordered. The ball shall be put in by
the team NOT in possession of the ball at the commencement of
the maul.
If the referee is unable to determine which team was in possession, the
ball shall be put in by:
(a) the team which was going forward prior to the stoppage; or
(b) if neither team was going forward by the attacking team
(b) If a player catches the ball direct from a kick by an opponent other
than from a kick-off or from a drop-out. and is immediately held by a
opponent so that a maul ensues and the maul remains stationary or
stops moving forward or the ball becomes unplayable lus team shall
put in the ball at the ensuing scrummage.
74
Law 22
1RB Ruling - December 1993
A player catches the ball direct from a kick by an opponent who is immediately
held but no maul ensues and the ball becomes unplayable; The put-in at the
resulting scrummage will be in accordance with Law 20(7).
A maul is not stationary if it is moving in any direction.
“Immediately*’ means as soon as the player’s feci are on die ground after
catching the ball.
A player catches the ball direct from a kick by an opponent who is immediately
held so that a maul ensues dhd the maul moves into in-goal. The attacking team
will have the put-in - to the resulting five metre scrummage if:
(i)	The ball becomes unplayable (Law 14(2))
(ii)	The ball is touched down (Law 14(3)(b)).
FRB Ruling - March 1995
When the ball becomes unplayable as a result of a collapsed maul, the put-into a
resulting scrummage should be awarded under Law 22 (4).
NOTES
(i)	Direct from a kick means the ball has been caught without having bounced
off the playing surface or without having touched or been touched in flight
by another player.
(ii)	When the maul remains stationary or stops moving forward but the ball is
being moved and can be seen by the referee he should allow a reasonable
lime for the ball to emerge but not permit the maul to start moving again.
When the ball in a maul becomes unplayable the referee should not allow
prolonged wrestling for the ball and should order a scrummage.
Law 22
rFU U19 Interpretation:
Charging in an unsafe manner is considered dangerous, and should be
penalised under Law 26(3)(h).
Particular attention should be paid to the correct body position of players
joining the maul (i.e. head and shoulders must not be below the hips).
The referee should take note of the defenceless position of any players in the
maul. He should pay close attention to the method of entry into the maul to
ensure that defenceless players are not charged unfairly.
Players who fail to observe this requirement should be penalised under Law
26(3)(h).
(iii)	If the ball carrier in a maul goes to the ground, including being on one
knee or both knees or is sitting on the ground, a scrummage is to be
ordered unless the ball is immediately available for the continuation
of play.
For Off-side at Maul see Law 24C.
76
Law 23
LAW 23. TOUCH AND LINE-OUT.
A.	Touch
(1) The ball is in touch:
• when it is not being carried by a player and it touches a touch line or the
ground or a person or object on or beyond it; or when it is carried by a
player and it; or
• the player carrying it touches a touch line or the ground beyond it
(2)	If the ball is not in touch and has not crossed the plane of the touch line, a
player who is in touch may kick the ball or propel it with his hand but not
hold it.
(3)	The ball is deemed to have been kicked directly into touch if. from a kick,
it is in touch without having pitched on the playing area or without having
touched or been touched in flight by a player or the referee.
NOTES
(i) (a) If the ball is kicked directly into touch from a kick-off and the
opposing team elects to accept the kick, the line-out shall be formed:
(i) at the half-way line; or
(ii) where the ball went into touch if the place be nearer to the kicker s
goal-line.
(b)	If the ball is kicked directly into touch from a drop- out and the
opposing team elects to accept the kick, the line-out shall be forme
where the ball went into touch.
(ii) On or beyond the touch line or touch-in-goal line refers to al! areas
except the playing area. ,
(iii)	It is not touch or touch-in-goal when a player with both feet in i
playing area catches the ball, even though the ball before being cauc
has crossed the touch line or touch-in-goal line. Such a playtr
deflect or lap the ball into the playing area provided it is not pr<>Pv
forward. If a player jumps and catches the ball his feet must am i
playing area.
Law 23
B.	Line-out
The line-of-touch is an imaginary line in the field-of-play at right angles to the
touch line through the place where the ball is thrown in.
Formation of Line-out.
F.K. (1) A line-out is formed by at least two players from each team
lining up in single lines parallel to the linc-of-touch in
readiness for the ball to be thrown in between them. The team
throwing in the ball shall determine the maximum number of
players from either team who so line up. Such players are
those “in the line-out”, unless excluded below.
NOTE
(iv)	Prior to the beginning of the line-out. a free kick should be awarded for
offences in forming the line-out, including wilfully failing to form a
line-out or to line up at least two players.
F.K, (2) Each team must line up half a metre on its side of the line-of-
touch. so as to leave a clear space of one metre between the
two lines of players.
NOTE
(v)	The distance of one metre tor the clear space is between the shoulders of
the players when standing upright.
F.K. (3) The line-of-touch must not be less than one metre= froma
<5*- goal-line The line-out stretches from five metres from di
touch line from which the ball is being thrown tn to a posmon
fifteen metres from that touch line.
78
Law 23
F.K. (4) Any player of either team who is further than fifteen metres
from the touch line when the line-out begins is not in the line-out
NOTE
(vi)	If, at a formed Line-out, the team throwing in the ball line up less than the
normal number, their opponents must be given a reasonable opportunity to
conform. Opposing players who are retiring for that purpose must do so
directly and without delay to a line ten metres behind the line-of-touch.
Loiterers must be penalised. Subject to this, when the line-out is ended
players so retiring may rejoin play, even if they have not reached the ten
metres line.
Throwing in the Ball
(5)	When the ball is in touch the place at which it must be thrown in is as
follows: -
(a)	When the ball goes into touch from a penalty kick; or from a kick
including a free kick awarded within twenty-two metres of the kicker's
goal line, at the place where it touched or crossed the touch line,
except as otherwise provided.
(b)	When the kicker has received the ball outside his twenty-two metres
line and retreated behind that line before kicking, and on all other
occasions when the ball is kicked directly into touch, after having been
kicked otherwise than as stated in (a), opposite the place from which
the ball was kicked or at the place where it touched or crossed the
touch line if that place be nearer to the kicker’s goal-line.
Law 23
(c)	When a quick throw-in is taken, from any point along the touch line
between where dte ball went tnto touch and the goal-Une of the team
throwing in the ball.
(d)	Otherwise when the ball is in touch, at the place where the ball touched
or crossed the touch line.
(6)	(a) When kicked into touch from a penalty kick, the ball will be thrown in
at the hne-out by the team which kicked the ball into touch.
(b) Otherwise the ball is to be thrown in by an opponent of the player
whom it last touched, or by whom it was carried before being in touch.
(c)	In the event of doubt as to which team should throw in the ball, the
attacking team shall do so.
(7)	The ball may be brought into play at a formed line-out, or by a quick
throw-in which can only be taken before the line-out has formed.
If a quick throw-in occurs after the line-out has formed, it is void and the
ball is brought into play at the formed line-out by the same team.
(8)	At a formed line-out the player throwing in the ball must:
• not put any part of cither foot in the field of play.
® throw the ball in at the place indicated in (5) so that it first touches the
ground or touches or is touched by a player at least five metres from the
touch-line along the line-of-touch; otherwise the opposing team shall
have the right, as its option, to throw in the ball or to take a scrummage
fifteen metres from the touch line.
(9)	(a) At a quick throw-in, the ball that went into touch must be used and
after going into touch, and being made dead, unless it has been touche
only by the player throwing it in; the ball shall be thrown in at e p ace
indicated in (5) by the same team.
80
Law 23
1RB Ruling - December 1993
If a player carrying the ball is forced into touch there can be a quick throw-in by
the opposition.
(b) At a quick thrown-in, the ball must be thrown straight along the
line-of-touch so that it first touches the ground or touches or is touched
by a player at least five metres from the touch-line along the
line-of -touch; otherwise the opposing team shall have the right, at its
option, to throw in the ball or to take a scrummage fifteen metres from
the touch line at the place where the quick thrown-in occurred.
F.K.(c) At a quick throw-in a player must not prevent the ball from
being thrown five metres.
(10)	If, on the second occasion, the ball is not thrown incorrectly, a scrummage
shall be formed and the ball shall be put in by the team which threw it in
on the first occasion.
NOTE
(vii)	If a player wilfully or repeatedly throws the ball in not straight, a penalty
kick should be awarded. If at a formed Line-out a player delays or feints to
throw the ball in a free kick should be awarded.
Beginning and end of Line-out
F.K.(ll) The line-out begins when the ball leaves the hands of the
player throwing it in. No player may jump for the ball or
support any player before the ball has left the hands of the
player throwing it in
(12) The line-out ends when:
• a ruck or maul is taking place and all feet of players in the ruck or
maul have moved beyond the line-of-touch; or
• a player carrying the ball leaves the line-out; or
• the ball has been passed, knocked back or kicked from the line-out; or
• the ball is thrown beyond a position fifteen metres from the touch line;
or
• the ball becomes unplayable.
NOTES
(viii)	If a player participating in a line-out hands the ball to another player who
is peeling-off from the line-out, the line-out ends when the second player
takes the ball.
fix) When the ball has been passed or knocked back from a line-out, the
line-out is ended. Players in front of a player of their own team who
receives the ball from the line-out may be off-side but they should only be
penalised under Law 24A if they play the ball or obstruct an opponent in
any way.
(x)	A ruck or maul has not moved from the linc-of-touch unless all the feet of
the players in the ruck or maul have moved beyond that line.
Peeling Off
“Peeling off’ occurs when a player (or players) moves from his position in the
line-out for the purpose of catching the ball when it has been passed or knocked
back by another of his team in the line-ouL
F-K. (13) When the ball is in touch players who approach the line-of-
touch must always be presumed to do so for the purpose of
forming a line-out. Before the ball leaves the hands of the
player throwing it in, the players in the line-out must not
leave it but may change their position along the-linc-of-
touch. After the ball has been thrown in such players must
not leave the line-out except in a peel-off movement or to
•join a maul.
^cption •- At a quick throw-in, when a player may come to the line-of-touch
retire from that position without penalty.
82
Law 23
F.K (14) In a peeling off movement a player must move parallel and
close to the line-out.
Restrictions on Players In Line-out
E.V. (15) When a line-out is taking place, any player in the line-out must
NOT:
F.K. (a) stand within five metres of the touch line or prevent the ball
from being thrown five metres, or
P.K (b) be off-side, or
P.K. (c) use an opponent as a support to enable him to jump for theball,
or
P.K. (d)hold, push, charge, obstruct or grasp an opponent not holding
the ball, except when a ruck or maul is taking place, or
P.K. (e) charge an opponent except in an attempt to tackle him or to
play the ball, or
F.K. (f) use any player of his team as a support to enable him to jump
for the ball, or
F.K. (g)lift a player of his team, or
F.K (h)support any player of his team before this player has jumped
for the ball, or
83
Law 23
P.K. (i) hold a supported player below the waist
NOTES
(xi)	Law 23B(8) is not an alternative to Law 23B(15) (a) . The first is an
obligation on the thrower, the second is an obligation on the receiver. If a
player prevents the ball from reaching five metres it must always bo
penalised by a free kick.
(xii)	Any movement of a player beyond a position fifteen metres from the touch
line must be solely for the purpose of catching or jumping to catch the ball.
The player may move in-field in an attempt to catch the ball only after it
leaves the hand of the player throwing it in.
(xiii)	A player acting as scrum-half may not stand or move beyond a position
fifteen metres from the touch line before the ball has passed that position
unless he moves to anticipate a long throw-in but he may so move only in
accordance with the conditions in the preceding note (xii).
(xiv)	Any infringement between the formation of the line-out and its beginning
shall be dealt with under the provisions of Law 26(3)(e).
E.V.

F.K. (16) A player jumping for the ball must do so with either
both hands or his inside arm to catch or deflect the ball.
When a player plays the ball with both hands above his
head, he is allowed to use either hand.
F.K. (17) Except when jumping for the ball or peeling oft, a clear
space of one metre must be left between the two lines of
players until the ball has touched or has been touched by a
player or has touched the ground.
NOTE
(xv)	The act of jumping for the ball may include a step or steps in any direction
provided it takes the jumper up to but not across the line-o - ouc
84
Law 23
F.K. (18) A player in the line-out may move into the space between
the touch line and the five metres mark only when the ball
has been thrown beyond him and, if he does so, he must not
move towards his goal line before the line-out ends, except
in a peeling off movement.
P.K. (19) Until the line-out ends, no player may move beyond a
position fifteen metres from the touch line except as allowed
when the ball is thrown beyond that position in accordance
with the Exception following Law 24D (1) (c).
NOTE
(xvi)	If the ball in a line-out becomes unplayable, otherwise than as a result of
an infringement for which a penalty is prescribed, a scrummage should be
ordered.
P.K (20) A player participating in the line-out as defined in Law 24D
may run into a gap in the line out and take the ball provided
he does not charge or obstruct an opponent in the line-out.
Restrictions on Players not in Line-out
P.K. (21) Players of either team who are not in the line-out ’na^
advance from behind the line-out and take the bal ronl
throw-in, unless in accordance with the exception in
24 D (3).
85
Law 23
Penalty: (a) For an infringement of paragraphs (1), (2), (3), (4) . (9)
(c) (11). (13), (14). (15) (a). (0. (g) or (h). (17) or (18). a free
kick fifteen metres from the touch line along die line-of- touch.
(b) For an infringement of paragraphs 15 (b), (c), (d), (e) or
(i), (19) or (20). a penalty kick fifteen metres from the touch
line along the linc-of-touch.
(c) For an infringement of paragraph (21), a penalty kick on
the offending team’s off-side line (as defined in Law 24 D)
opposite the place of infringement, but not less than fifteen
metres from the touch line.
Place of scrummage
Any scrummage taken or ordered under this Law or as the result of any
infringement in a line-out shall be formed fifteen metres from the touch-line
along the line-of-touch.
NOTE
(xvii)	If a player repeatedly infringes, he must be dealt with under Law 26 (2).
For off-side at Line-out see Law 24D.
86
Law 24
LAW 24. OFF-SIDE.
Off-side means that a player is in a position in which he is out of the game and
is liable to penalty. ' ‘
In general play the player is in an off-side position because he is in front of the
ball when it has been last played by another player of his team.
In play at scrummage, ruck, maul or line-out the player is off-side because he
remains or advances in front of the line or place stated in, and otherwise
infringes, the relevant sections of this Law.
A. Off-side In General Play
(1)	A player is in an off-side position if the ball has been:
• kicked; or
• touched; or
• is being carried by one of his team behind him.
(2)	There is no penalty for being in an off-side position unless: -
(a)	the player plays the ball or obstructs an opponent; or
(b)	he being within ten metres of an opponent waiting to play the
ball or of the place where the ball pitches does not retire without
delay and without interfering with the opponent; or
(c)	he, on all other occasions, moves towards the opponents waiting
to play the ball or to the place where the ball pitches, before he is
put on-side.
Exceptions:-
(i) When an off-side player cannot avoid being touched by the ball or
by a player carrying it, he is “accidentally off-side”. Play should
be allowed to continue unless the infringing team obtains an
advantage, in which case a scrummage should be formed at
that place.
(ii)	A player who receives an unintentional throw-forward is no
off-side.
87
Law 24
' Penalty:- Penalty kick at the place of infringement, or, at the option of
the non-offending team, a scrummage at the place where the
ball was last played by the offending team. If the latter place
is In-goal, the penalty kick shall be taken or the scrummage
shall be formed five metres from the goal line on a line
through the place.
For an infringement of (2)(c) by more than one player, the
place of infringement will be that of the off-side player
closest to the player waiting for the ball or to where the
ball pitches.
NOTES
(i) A penalty for off-side should not be given at once if the non-offending
team gains an advantage or if it appears likely to gain an advantage; but if
the expected advantage is not gained, the penalty should in all cases be
awarded even if it is necessary to bring play back for that purpose to the
place of infringement
(ii) When a player knocks on and an off-side player of the same team next
plays the ball, a penalty for off-side should not be awarded unless the
off-side deprives the non-offending team of an advantage.
(iii)	A player can be off-side in his In-goal.
(iv)	If a player hands the ball to another player of his team in front of him, the
second player is off-side. A scrummage for "accidental off-side" should be
awarded unless it is considered the player was wilfully off-side in which
case a penalty kick should be awarded.
(v)	The referee should whistle at once if an off-side player who cannot be
placed on-side charges within ten metres of an opponent waiting to receive
the ball. Delay may prove dangerous to the latter player. Where there is no
opponent waiting to play the ball but one arrives as the ball pitches, an
off-side player who is near such opponent must not obstruct or interfere
with him in any way whatsoever before he is put on-side.
Law 24
(vi)	If an attacking player kicks the ball which is mis-fielded by an opponent
and die ball is then played by another attacking player in an off-side
position within ten metres of the opponent, a penalty kick should be
awarded.
(vii)	If an attacking player kicks the ball which is charged down by an opponent
and another attacking player within ten metres of the opponent then plays
the ball, play should be allowed to continue. The opponent was not
“waiting to play the ball" and the second attacking player is therefore
on-side under Law 25(2).
(viii)	Law 24A(2) (b) and (c) also apply where the ball has struck a goal-post or
cross-bar. Off-side players must not approach or remain within ten metres
of an opponent waiting to play the ball or the place where the ball pitches.
B. Off-side at Scrummage
The term “off-side line” means a line parallel to the goal lines through the
hindmost foot of the player’s team in the scrummage.
While a scrummage is forming or is taking place
(1) A player is off-side if he, not being in the scrummage nor the player of either
team who puts the ball in the scrummage:
(a)	fails to retire behind the off-side line or to his goal-line whichever is
the nearer; or
(b)	places either foot in front of the off-side line while the ball is in the
scrummage.
IRB U19 Variation
Insert Section (c) as follows:
(c)	No 8 is the only player who is permitted to detach and pick up the
emerged ball. On his so doing, the scrummage is ended.
Penalty:- Penalty Kick at place of infringement
89
Law 24
(2)	A player is off-side if:
(a)	he. being the player in a scrum half position whose team has won
the ball, places both feet in front of the ball while it is still in the
scrummage, or
(b)	he, being the immediate opponent of the player in a scrum hal
position whose team has won the ball, places either foot in front of the
ball while it is still in the scrummage.
(3)	A player is off-side if he, being the immediate opponent of the player
putting in the ball, moves to the opposite side of the scrummage or moves
away from the scrummage and is in front of the scrummage off-side line.
RFU U15 Interpretation
A player is offside if he, being the immediate opponent of the player putting in the
ball, takes up a position on or moves beyond the middle line of the scrummage.
IRB Ruling - March 1996
If the immediate opponent of the player putting the ball into the scrummage does
not remain in close proximity to the scrummage he must remain behind the
| scrummage off-side lih'^ . J»':
Penalty:- Penalty kick on the off-side line.
NOTES
(ix)	Players must retire without delay to the scrummage off-side line when a
scrummage is forming. Loiterers must be penalised.
(x)	Any player of either team may at a particular scrummage be the player
who puts in the ball or who takes up position as scrum-half when his
opponent is putting in the ball; but such player is at that scrummage the
only player of his team who has the benefit of Law 24B(2).
C.	Off-side at Ruck or Maul
The term “off-side line" means a line parallel to the goal-line through the
hindmost foot of the player’s team in the ruck or maul.
D
Law 24
(1)	Ruck or Maul otherwise than at line-out.
While a ruck or maul is taking place (including a ruck or maul which
continues after a line-out has ended) a player is off-side if he:-
(a)	joins it from his opponent’s side; or
(b)	joins in front of the hindmost player of his team in the ruck or
maul; or
(c)	does not join the ruck or maul but fails to retire behind the off-side
line without delay; or
(d)	unbinds from the ruck or leaves the maul and does not
immediately retire behind the off-side line; or once he is on-side,
if he rejoins the ruck or maul in front of the hindmost player of his
team in the ruck or maul; or
(e)	advances beyond the off-side line with either foot and does not
rejoin the ruck or maul.
Penally- Penally kick on the off-side line.
(2) Ruck or Maul at line-out
The term “participating in the line-out” has the same meaning a in
Section D of this Law. A player participating in the line-out is not
obliged to join or remain in the ruck or maul and if he is not in the ruck
or maul he continues to participate in the line-out until it has ended.
While a line-out is in progress and a ruck or maul takes place, a player
is off-side if he:-
(a)	joins the ruck or maul from his opponent's side; or
(b)	joins in front of the hindmost player of his team in the ruck of
maul; or
(c)	being a player who is participating in the line-out and is not in
the ruck or maul, does not retire to and remain at the off-side me
defined in this Section; or
91
9'
Law 24
Penalty:- Penalty kick fifteen metres from the touch line along the
line-of-touch.
(d)	being a player who is not participating in the line-out, remains or
advances with either foot in front of the off-side line defined in
Section D of this Law.
Penalty:- Penalty kick on the offending team’s off-side line (as
defined in Section D of this Law) opposite the place of
infringement but not less than fifteen metres from the touch line.
NOTE
(xi)	When the line-out has ended but the ruck or maul is still taking place, a
player is off-side if he infringes Section (1) of these Laws.
D.	Off-side at Line-out
The term “participating in the Line-out” refers exclusively to the following
players:-
• those players who are in the line-out; and
o the player who throws in the ball; and
• his immediate opponent who may have the option of throwing in the
ball; and
• one other player of either team who takes up position to receive the
ball if it is passed or knocked back from the line-out.
All other players are not participating in the line-out.
The term “off-side line" means a line ten metres behind the line-of-touch and
parallel to the goal lines or, if the goal line be nearer than ten metres to the line-
of-touch, the “off-side line” is the goal line.
92
Law 24
Off-side while participating in Line-out
(1)	A participating player is off-side if: -
P.K. (a) before the ball has touched a player or the ground he wilfully
remains or advances with either foot in front of the
line-of-touch, unless he advances while jumping for the ball
provided that the jump is made from his side of the line-of
touch; or
P.K (b) after the ball has touched a player or the ground, if he is not
carrying the ball, he advances with either foot in front of the
ball, unless he is lawfully tackling or attempting to tackle an
opponent who is participating in the line-out. Such tackle or
attempt to tackle must, however, start from his side of the ball;
or
P.K. (c) before the line-out ends he moves beyond a position fifteen
metres from the touch line.
Exception:- Players of the team throwing in the ball may move beyond a
position of fifteen metres from the touch line for a long throw-in to them. They
may do so only when the ball leaves the hand of the player throwing it in and if
they do so their opponents participating in the line-out may follow them. I
players so move and the ball is not thrown to or beyond them they must
penalised for off-side.
Penalty:-
Penalty Kick fifteen metres from the touch line
and along the linc-of-touch.
Law 24
NOTES
(xii)	Players who advance beyond the off-side line or who move beyond a
position fifteen metres from the touch line in the expectation of a long
throw-in must be penalised if. for any reason, (he ball is not thrown beyond
that position.
(xiii)	A player who has jumped unsuccessfully for the ball and crossed the
line-of-touch should not be penalised if he retires immediately to an
on-side position.
(xiv)	The referee should be strict in dealing with those players who, while not
disputing possession of the ball in the line-out, advance to an off-side
position whether intentionally or not.
(2)	The player throwing in the ball and his immediate opponent must:-
(a)	remain within five metres of the touch line; or
(b)	retire to the off-side line; or
(c)	join the line-out after the ball has been thrown in five metres; or
(d)	move into position to receive the ball if it is passed or knocked back
from the line-out provided no other player is occupying that position
at that line-out.
If they do not, they are off-side.
Penalty:- Penalty Kick fifteen metres from the touch line
along die line-of-touch.
NOTE
(xv)	If a plavcr other than the wing three-quarter throws in the ball from touch.
the wing three-quarter must retire to the off-side line, or join the line-out.
Off-side while not participating in line-out
(3)	A player who is not participating is off-side if before the line-out has ended
he advances or remains with either foot in front of e o si e me.
94
Law 24
____________________________________
Exception:- Players of the team throwing in the ball who are not participating in
the line-out may advance for a long throw-in to them beyond the line-out. They
may do so only when the ball leaves the hand of the player throwing in the ball
and, if they do, their opponents may advance to meet them. If players so advance
for a long throw-in to them and the ball is not thrown to them they must be
penalised for off-side.
NOTE
(xvi)	If a player not participating in the line-out is offside, the referee should not
whistle immediately if the opposing team is likely to gain an advantage.
He should apply the advantage Law in all such cases.
Players returning to “on-side” position
(4)	A player is not obliged, before throwing in the ball, to wait until players of
his team have returned to or behind the line-out but such players are
off-side unless they return to an on-side position without delay.
Penalty:- Penalty kick on the offending team’s off-side line opposite
the place of infringement, but not less than fifteen metres
from the touch line.
NOTE
(xvii)	Scrummage, ruck, maul and line-out - where these Laws state a line which
determines the off-side position such line stretches continuously from
touch line to touch line.
95
Law 25
LAW 25. ON-SIDE.
On-side means that a player is in the Game and not liable to penalty for off-side.
Player made on-side by action of his team
(1) Any player who is off-side in general play and who is not infringing Law
24 A (2) becomes on-side as a result of any of the following actions of his
team;-
• when the off-side player has retired behind the player of his team
who last kicked, touched or carried the ball, or
• when one of his team carrying the ball has run in front of him, or
• when one of his team has run in front of him after coming from
the place or from behind the place where the ball was kicked.
In order to put the off-side player on-side, this other player must be in the
playing area. But he is not debarred from following up in touch or
touch-in-goal,
NOTE
(i)	An off-side player who is within ten metres of an opponent waiting to play
the ball or w here a ball pitches, must retire and continue to do so up to ten
metres until he is put on-side. If he does not do so. he must be penalised.
Player made on-side by action of opposing team
(2)	Any player who is off-side in general play, except an off-side player within
ten metres of an opponent waiting to play the ball or where the ball pitches,
becomes on-side as a result of any of the following actions:-
• when an opponent carrying the ball has run five metres; or
• when an opponent kicks or passes the ball; or
• when an opponent intentionally touches the ball and does not catch
or gather it.
An off-side player within ten metres of an opponent waiting to play the
96
Law 25
ball or where the ball pilches, cannot be put on-side by any action of his
opponents Any other off-side player in general play is always put on-side
when an opponent plays the ball.
Player retiring at scrummage, ruck, maul or line-out
(3)	A player who is in an off-side position when a scrummage, ruck, maul or
line-out is forming or taking place and is retiring as required by Law 24
(Off-side) becomes on-side:-
• when an opponent carrying the ball has run five metres; or
• when an opponent has kicked the ball.
An off-side player in this situation is not put on-side when an opponent
passes the ball.
NOTES
(ii)	The referee should be careful to ensure that no benefit under Law 25(2) is
gained by loiterers who wilfully remain in an off-side position and thereby
prevent opponents from running with, kicking, passing or otherwise
playing the ball.
(iii)	When a team has gained quick possession from a scrummage, ruck, maul
or line-out and starts a passing movement, opponents who arc retiring
must not be allowed to interfere with the movement unless the conditions
of Law 25(3) exist. Reierees should be strict in applying this.
97
Law 26
LAW 26. FOUL PLAY.
Foul Play is any action by a player which is contrary to the letter and spirit of
the Game and includes obstruction, unfair play, misconduct, dangerous play,
unsporting behaviour, retaliation and repeated infringements.
Obstruction
(1) It is illegal for any player-
fa) who is running for the ball to charge or push an opponent running for
the ball, except shoulder to shoulder;
(b) who is in an off-side position wilfully to run or stand in front of
another player of his team who is carrying the ball, thereby preventing
an opponent from reaching the latter player,
(c)	who is carrying the ball after it has come out of a scrummage, ruck,
maul or line-out, to attempt to force his way through the players of his
team in front of him;
(d)	who is an outside player in a scrummage to prevent an opponent from
advancing round the scrummage.
Penalty:- Penalty kick at the place of infringement.
A penalty try may be awarded.
NOTES
(i)	There are no circumstances in which a player carrying the ball can be
penalised for obstmetion.
(ii)	Tire referee should note that:-
(a)The intention of this Law as regards the penalties to be imposed for
serious forms of obstruction must be applied.
(b)	If a player is guilty of charging or obstructing or holding an opponent
who is not carrying the ball or any other form of foul play, before any
Law 26
other action is taken the player must at once be cautioned or ordered off. If he
offends a second time, the referee has no alternative to ordering him off. If the
offence prevents a try which probably would otherwise have been scored, a
penalty try must be awarded.
icfThe intention of the Council of the International Board is that if the
referee has any doubt as to the balance of probability, he should give
the benefit of the doubt in favour of the non-offending team and award
the penalty try.
Unfair Play, Repeated Infringements
(2) It is illegal for any player: -
Qv P.K. (a) deliberately to play unfairly or wilfully infringe any Law of
the Game;
P.K (b)wilfully to knock or throw the ball from the playing area
into touch, touch-in-goal or over the dead-ball line;
cf
•'•v. P.K. (c) to infringe repeatedly any Law of the Game.
Penalty:- Penalty kick at the place of infringement A penalty try’ may
be awarded if the offence prevents a try which otherwise
would probably have been scored For offences under (2) (c)
a player may be cautioned and. if he repeats the offence.
must be ordered off.
F.K. (d) wilfully to waste time
99
_________________________________________________Law 26
Misconduct, Dangerous Play
(3)	It is illegal for any player. -
(a)	to strike an opponent,
(b)	wilfully or recklessly to hack or kick an opponent or trip him with the
foot, or to trample on an opponent lying on the ground;
RFU U19 Interpretation
A player is assumed to have wilfully used the boot unless the referee is certain
that the boot made contact in an accidental manner.
(c) to tackle early, late or dangerously, including the action known as a
“stiff arm tackle”;
(d)	who is not running for the ball wilfully or recklessly to charge or
obstruct an opponent who has just kicked the ball;
(e)	to hold, push, charge, obstruct or grasp an opponent not holding the
ball except in a scrummage, ruck or maul;
(Except in a scrummage or ruck the dragging away of a player lying
close to the ball is permitted. Otherwise pulling any part of the
clothing of an opponent is holding.)
(0 in the front row of a scrummage to form down some distance from the
opponents and rush against them;
(g)	in the front row of a scrummage wilfully to lift an opponent off his feet
or force him upwards out of the scrummage;
(h)	wilfully or recklessly to cause a scrummage, ruck or maul to collapse;
(i)	while the ball is out of play to molest, obstruct or in any way interfere
with an opponent or be guilty of any form of misconduct;
(j) to commit any misconduct on the playing enclosure which is
prejudicial to the spirit of good sportsmanship.
4
Penalty;- A player guilty of misconduct and dangerous play shall
cither be ordered off or else cautioned that he will be
ordered off if he repeats the offence. For a similar oflence
after caution, the player must be ordered oft.
100
Law 26
In addition to a caution or ordering oil a penally try or a penalty kick shall be
awarded as follows:-
(i) If the offence prevents a try which would otherwise probably have
been scored, a penalty try shall be awarded.
(ii) The place for a penally kick shall be. -
(a)	For offences other than under paragraphs (d) and (i), at the place
of infringement
(b)	For an infringement of (d) the non-offending team shall have the
option of taking the kick at the place of infringement or where the
ball alights; and if the ball alights:-
• in touch .the mark is fifteen metres from the touch line on a line
parallel to the goal lines through the place where it went into touch:
or
• within fifteen metres from the touch line, it is fifteen metres from
the touch line on a line parallel to the goal lines through the place
where it alighted; or
• in In-goal. touch-in-goal, or over or on the dead-ball line, it is rive
metres from die goal line on a line parallel to the touch line through
the place where it crossed the goal line or fifteen metres from the
touch line whichever is the greater When the offence takes place in
touch the “place of infringement" in the optional penalty award is
fifteen metres from the touch line opposite to where the offence
look place.
If the offence takes place in touch-in-goal, the “place of infringement"
in the optional penally award is in the field-of-play five metres from
the goal-line and fifteen metres from the touch line.
(c)	For an offence under (i). at any place where the ball would next
have been brought into play if the offence had not occurred, or. if
dial place is on or beyond die touch line, fifteen metres from that
place on a line parallel to (he goal lines.
10
Law 26
(lii)For an infringement in In-goal, a penally kick is to be awarded as
provided for under Law 14 Penalties.
(iv)	For an offence under Law 26(3) (i). the penalty kick is to be taken at
whichever is the place where play would restart, that is.
• at the twenty-two metre line (at any point the non-offending team
may select); or
o at the centre of the half-way line, or
o if a scrummage five metres from the goal line would otherwise have
been awarded, at the place fifteen metres from the touch line on a
line five metres from and parallel to the goal line, whichever is
the greater.
(v)For an offence which occurs within the playing enclosure while the
ball is still in play and which is not otherwise covered in the foregoing,
the penalty kick shall be awarded in the playing area fifteen metres
from the touch line and opposite to where die offence took place.
(vi)	For an offence reported by a touch judge under Law 6B(6) a penalty
kick may be awarded where the offence occurred or advantage may
be played.
NOTES
(iii)	"Playing the man without the ball" and all forms of dangerous tackling
including early, late and stiff arm "tackling" or attempting to tackle a
player around the neck or head or above the line of the shoulders MUST
be punished severely. Players who wilfully resort to this type of foul play
must be ordered off the field. Advantage should be played, but a penally
try must be awarded if the dangerous tackle prevents a probable try.
(iv)	It is for the referee to decide what constitutes a dangerous tackle,
having regard to the circumstances, e.g.. the apparent intentions of the
tackler, or the nature of the tackle, or the defenceless position of the player
being tackled or knocked over, which may be the cause of serious injury.
(v)	The following actions constitute dangerous play:-
(a)	if a player charges or knocks down an opponent carrying the ball
without any attempt to tackle him:
102
Law 26
(b)	if a player taps or pulls the loot or feet of another player who is
jumping in a line-out for the ball:
c) if a player attempts to tackle a player who. when 1’ielding a kick in
open play, is off the ground jumping for the ball.
(vi)	A player shall not “take the Law into his own hands" nor wilfully do
anything that is dangerous to an opponent even if the latter is infringing the
Laws.
(vii)	If a player is obstructed after kicking the ball and the ball strikes a goal
post, the optional penally should be awarded where the ball alights after
bouncing off the post.
(viii)	If a penalty kick has been awarded and. before the kick has been taken, the
offending team infringes Law 26(3)(l). the referee should:
(a)	caution or order off the player guilty of misconduct; and
(b)	in addition advance the mark for the penalty kick ten metres, this to
cover both die original infringement and the misconduct.
(Lx) If a penally kick is awarded to a team and before the kick is taken, a player
of that team infringes Law 26 (3) (i). the referee should:
(a) caution or order off the player guilty of misconduct; and
(b) declare the penally kick void; and
(c)	award a penalty kick against the team last guilty of misconduct.
(x) The referee should note that:-
(a) Repealed infringement is a question of fact and not a question of
whether the offender intended to infringe.
(b) If the same player has to be penalised repeatedly he should be dealt
with under Law 26 (2) (d).
(c)	Foul play must not be condoned.
(d> Repeated infringements arise mainly in connection with scrummages.
off-side and line-outs, tackles, rucks and mauls. If a player has been
penalised for infringing one of these Laws several times in the same
match, he should be cautioned and. if he repeats the offence.
ordered off.
(e)	It is a question for the referee whether or not a series of the same
oflences by different players of a learn amounts to repeated
infringements. If he considers that it does, he should give a general
warning to that team and, if the offence is repeated, he must order the
next offending player off the field.
103
Law 26
(0 In deciding the number of offences which should constitute “repeated
infringement” as indicated in (d) (e) above the referee should alway
apply a strict standard in representative and senior matches. On the
third occasion a caution must be given. In the case of junior nr minor
matches where ignorance of the Laws and lack of skill may account
for many infringements, a less strict standard may be applied.
(.xi) The International Board and the Unions in membership with it will fully
support referees in (he strict and uniform enforcement of the Laws as to
repeated infringements.
(4)	It is illegal for a team to adopt ploys known as:
(a) The Flying Wedge
(b) The Cavalry Charge
Penally: Penalty Kick at the place of the original infringement.
NOTES
(xii> Flying Wedge
This move usually occurs close to the opponent’s goal line when a penalty
kick or a free kick is awarded to the attacking team, and is initiated by a
player either tapping the ball himself or receiving a short pass, and then
driving toward the goal line with his colleagues binding onto either side of
him in a V or wedge formation. Frequently the player is isolated illegally
by (hose of his own (earn in from of him. The dangers inherent in this
formation are not for those initiating the move but for those trying to
slop it.
(xiii) Cavalry' Charge
A cavalry charge usually occurs when a penally kick or free kick is
awarded to the attacking team close to their opponent’s goal line. Players
ol the attacking team line up behind the kicker, spacing themselves across
the field in gaps of a metre or two. On a signal from the kicker they begin
to charge forward. Only when they' are close to the kicker docs he tap kick
the ball and pass it to one of them. The defending team have to remain
behind a line 10 metres from the mark or their own goal line (if nearer)
until the ball has been kicked. The move is potentially dangerous.
104
Law 26
RFU U19 Variation of second, third and fourth sentences
One or more players of the attacking team line-up behind the kicker, perhaps
spacing themselves across the field in gaps of a metre or two. On a signal from
the kicker, one or more of them begins or begin to charge forward Only when
he or they are close to the kicker does he tap kick the ball and pass it to the
charging player or players.
Players Ordered Off
A player who is ordered off shall take no further part in the match. When a
player is ordered off. the referee shall, as soon as possible after the match, send
to the Union or other disciplinary body having jurisdiction over the match a
report naming the player and describing the circumstances which necessitated
the ordering off. The Union or other disciplinary body having jurisdiction over
the match shall consider such report and any other evidence they deem
appropriate. They shall then take such action and impose such punishment as
they see fit.
Citing of Players
Where a player commits an act of foul play which has not been detected by
match officials, either of the Unions or affiliated organisations participating in
the match have the discretion to cite that player to show cause why he should not
be held accountable in the same way as a player who has been ordered off.
RFU Ruling
Under Law 26 when a player is ordered off the playing enclosure or the match
is abandoned under Law 26 in a match played under the jurisdiction of the
R.F.U. the procedure shall be as follows: The referee shall send his report
within forty eight hours to:
(a) The Disciplinary Secretary of the Constituent Body to which the
player’s club is allocated
(b) The R.F.U. when two or more players are ordered off together for
offences arising from their involvement in the same incident and the
Clubs for which they were playing arc allocated to separate
Constituent Bodies.
105
Law 26
(c)	The R.F.U. if the Club for whom the player was playing is not
allocated to a Constituent Body,
(d)	The Union for which the player was playing in International matches.
NOTE: In all the above cases the referee shall send a copy of his report to his
own Referee Society.
(e)	The Constituent Body in whose area the match was played if he is not
a member of a recognised Referee Society.
The report will then be dealt with by the R.F.U. under the powers in that behalf
contained in Rule 5.12 or by the Constituent Body concerned under the powers
delegated to it under the powers contained in Rule 12.4 (see “Delegation of
Powers’’ in R.F.U. Handbook).
Club secretaries shall report to their Constituent Bodies, within four days, the
name and address of any player of their Club who has been ordered off the
playing enclosure. This applies irrespective of whether the referee is a member
of a Society or not.
In the event of an abandoned match the referee should:-
(i)	identify the individual culprits who alone will be disciplined under
Law 26;
(ii)	abandon the game under Law 6:
(iii)	explain to both Captains the reasons why he is abandoning it.
106
Law 27
LAW 27. PENALTY KICK.
A penalty kick is a kick awarded to the non-offending team as stated in the Laws.
It may be taken by any player of the non-offending team and by any form of kick
provided that the kicker, if holding the ball, must propel it out of his hands or, if
the ball is on the ground, he must propel it a visible distance from the mark.
(1) The non-offending team has the option of taking a scrummage at the
mark and shall put in the ball
(2)	When a penally kick is taken the following shall apply:-
(a) The kick must be taken without undue delay
(b) The kick must be taken at or behind the mark on a line through the
mark and the kicker may place the ball for a place kick. If the place
prescribed by the Laws for the award of a penally kick is within
five metres of the opponents’ goal line, the mark for the penally
kick or a scrummage taken instead of it shall be five metres from
the goal line on a line through that place.
(c)	The kicker may kick the ball in any direction and he may play the
ball again, without any restriction, except that if he has indicated
to the referee that he intends to attempt a kick at goal or has taken
any action indicating such intention he must not kick the ball in
any other way A player kicking for touch may only punt or drop
kick the ball. Any indication of intention is irrevocable.
RFU Ruling
If. having elected to kick at goal, the kicker placed the ball which then fell
over and the kicker changed the type of kick and proceeded to drop a goal, die
kick should stand.
(d)	The kicker s team, except the placer for a place kick, must be
behind the ball until it has been kicked. However, retiring players
of the kicker's team who are in front of the ball will not be
penalised if their failure to retire is due to the rapidity with which
107
Law 27
the kick has been taken but they must not stop retiring and must no
enter the game until they have been made on-side by an action of their
own team as required by Law 25(1).
IRB Ruling - 1992
The requirement in 27(2)(d) for the kicker’s team to be behind the ball until it
has been kicked applies to all participating players, whether they are within the
playing area or outside it.
(e)	The opposing team must run without delay (and continue to do so
while the kick is being taken and while the ball is being played by
the kicker’s team) to or behind a line parallel to the goal lines and
ten metres from the mark, or to their own goal line if nearer to the
mark. If a kick at goal is taken they must there remain motionless
with their hands by their sides until the kick has been taken.
Retiring players will not be penalised if their failure to retire ten
metres is due to the rapidity with which the kick has been taken,
but they must not stop retiring and must not enter the game until
they have retired ten metres back from where the penalty kick was
awarded or until one of their own team who was al least 10 metres
from the mark has run in front of them
(f)	The opposing team must not wilfully resort to any action which
may delay the taking of a penalty kick. This includes actions such
as wilfully carrying, throwing or kicking the ball away out of the
reach of the kicker or interfering with him.
Penalty:-
• For an infringement by the kicker’s team - a scrummage at the mark.
• For an infringement by the opposing team - a penalty kick ten metres
in front of the mark or five metres from the goal line whichever is
the nearer, on a line through the mark. Any player of the non-
offending team may take the kick.
108
Law 27
NOTES
(i)	The kick must be taken with the ball which was in play unless the
referee decides that the ball is defective.
(ii)	The use of sand, sawdust or an approved kicking tee is permitted for
placing the ball.
(iii)	A player taking a penally kick may not bounce the ball on his knee. The
kick must be made with the foot or lower leg. If a player fails to kick the
ball, a scrummage should be ordered.
(iv)	In addition to the general provision regarding waste of lime, the kicker is
bound to kick without delay, under penally.
The instructions in the second paragraph of note (i) on Law 13 apply also
in the case of a penalty kick. Even without a caution, if the delay is clearly
a breach of Law the kick should be disallowed and a scrummage ordered.
(v)	The referee must always make up time lost by any delay in taking the kick.
as provided for in note (ii) under Law 5.
(vi)	If the kicker appears to be about to take a kick at goal, the referee may ask
him to state his intention.
(vii)	If the kicker is taking a kick at goal, all players of the opposing team must
remain passive from the time the kicker commences his run until the kick
has been taken.
(viii)	When a penalty kick is taken in In-goal, a penalty try shall be awarded if
a detending player by foul play prevents an opponent from first grounding
the ball.
(ix)	If. from a penalty kick taken in In-goal, the ball (ravels into touch in-goal
or over the dead-ball line, a five metre scrummage should be ordered, the
attacking team to put in the ball.
(x)	11 the kicker takes a drop kick and a goal results, the goal stands even
though the kicker has not indicated to the referee an intention to kick at
goal.
(xi)	If, notwithstanding a prior infringement by the opposing team, a goal is
kicked, the goal should be awarded instead of a further penalty kick.
txii) The referee should not award a further penalty if he is satisfied that the
reason for such further penalty has been deliberately contrived by the
kicker s team, but should allow play to continue. If the referee awards a
further penally, the penally kick should not be taken before the referee has
made the mark indicating the place of the penalty.
109
Law 28
LAW 28. FREE KICK.
A free kick is a kick awarded for a fair-catch or to the non-offending team as
stated in the Laws. A goal may not be scored from a free kick.
The team awarded a free kick may not score a dropped goal until after the ball
next becomes dead or an opposing player has played the ball or has tackled an
opponent or a maul has formed. This restriction applies similarly following a
scrummage taken in lieu of a free kick.
A free-kick awarded for an infringement may be taken by any player of the
non-offending team.
A free-kick may be taken by any form of kick, unless kicking for touch, provided
that the kicker, if holding the ball, must propel it out of his hands or, if the ball
is on the ground, he must propel it a visible distance from the mark
(1) The team awarded a free kick has the option of taking a scrummage al
the mark and shall put in the ball.
(2) When a kick is taken, it must be taken without undue delay.
(3)	The kick must be taken at or behind the mark on a line through the
mark and the kicker may place the ball for a place kick.
(4)	If the place presenbed by the Laws for the award of a free kick is
within five metres of the opponents’ goal line, the mark for the free
kick, or the scrummage taken instead of it, shall be five metres from
the goal line on a line through that place.
(5)	The kicker may kick the ball in any direction and he may play the ball
again without restriction. A player kicking for touch may only punt or
drop kick the ball.
(6)	The kicker’s team, except the placer for a place kick, must be behind
the ball until it has been kicked. However, retiring players of the
kicker’s team who are in front of the ball will not be penalised if their
failure to retire is due to the rapidity with which the kick has been
110
Law 28
taken but they must not stop retiring and must not enter the game until
they have been made on-side by an action of their own team as
required by Law 25(1).
(7)	The opposing team must not wilfully resort to any action which may
delay (he taking of a free kick. This includes actions such as wilfully
carrying, throwing or kicking the ball away out of reach of the kicker.
(8)	The opposing team must retire without delay to or behind a line
parallel to the goal lines and ten metres from the mark or to their own
goal line if nearer to the mark, or five metres from their opponents’
goal line if the mark is in In-goal. Having so retired, players of the
opposing team may charge, with a view to preventing the kick, as soon
as the kicker begins his run or offers to kick.
Retiring players will not be penalised if their failure to retire ten
metres is due to the rapidity with which the kick has been taken, but
they must not stop retiring and must not enter the game until they have
retired ten metres back from where the free kick was awarded or until
one of their own team who was at least 10 metres from the mark has
run in front of them.
(9)	If, having charged fairly, players of the opposing team prevent the kick
being taken, it is void.
(lO)Ncither the kicker nor the placer shall wilfully do anything which may
lead the opposing team to charge prematurely. If either docs so, the
charge shall not be disallowed.
Penalty
• For an infringement by the kicker’s team or for a void kick - a
scrummage at the mark and die opposing team shall put in the ball.
If the mark is in In-goal, the scrummage shall be awarded five
metres from the goal line on a line through the mark.
• For an infringement by the opposing team - a free kick ten metres
m front of the mark or five metres from the goal line whichever is
nearer, on a line through the mark. Any player of the non-offending
team may take the kick.
Law 28
NOTES
(i)	The kick must be taken with the ball which was in play unless the referee
decides that the ball is defective.
(ii)	A player taking a free kick may not bounce the ball on his knee. The kick
must be made with the fool or lower leg. If a player fails to kick the ball.
a scrum should be ordered.
(iii)	The kicker may not feint to kick and then draw back. Once he makes any
movement to kick, the opponents may charge.
(iv)	In addition to the general provision regarding waste of lime, the kicker is
bound to kick without delay, under penalty.
(v)	The referee shall see that the opposing players do not gradually creep up
and that they have both feet behind the ten metres line, otherwise he
shall award a penally in accordance with the penally provisions of Law 28.
ivij If the kick is taken from behind the goal line, the ball is in play if an
opponent legitimately plays it before it crosses the goal line, and a try may
be scored.
(vii) When a free kick is taken in In-goal, a penalty try shall be awarded if a
defending plover, by foul plav. prevents an opponent from first grounding
the ball '
(viin 11 from a free kick taken in In-goal the ball travels into touch-in-goal or
over the dead-ball line, a five metres scrummage should be ordered, the
attacking team to pur in the ball.
fix) If opponents lawfully charge down a free kick in the playing area, play
should be allowed to continue.
(x) If a free kick has been awarded in the tield-of-play and the player retires
to his In-goal to take the kick and his opponents having lawfully charged
to prevent the kick from being taken, a scrummage snail be awarded five
metres from the goal line on a line through the mark.
(xi) If a free kick has been awarded in In-goal and (he opponents having
lawfully charged prevent the kick from being taken, a scrummage shall be
awarded five metres from the goal line on a line through the mark.
(xii)	If the referee is satisfied that the reason for a free kick under the penalty
provisions has been contrived, he should allow play to continue. It the
referee awards a further penalty the free kick should not be taken before
the referee has made the mark indicating the place of the penalty.
112
INDEX TO LAWS OF THE GAME
Accidental Off-side 24A Exception (i)
Advantage 8
Approved Kicking Tee	10,13,27
Attacking Team	Definition, 12, 14, 20(7), 23(6)
Ball - Description of Held in In-goal Illegally Touched In Touch In Touch-in-goal Lying with, On or Near Taking Over Own Goal-line Touching Referee Unplayable Beyond or Behind or In Front Binding Binding in Scrummage in Ruck	2 14(2) II 23 14(2), (3),26(3) 18 14(3) 9 14(2). 21(3), 22(4), 23(12) Definition Definition 20(6) 21(1)
Charging at Kicks at Line-Out at Opponent Choice of Ends Collapsing of Scrummage of Ruck of Maul Commencement of Match Comer Post Cross Bar	10(6), 13(2), 15(6), 28(8) 23 B (15), (20) 26(1), (a), NOTE (ii)(b), (3)(d) and (e) 5(1) 20(14)(b), 26(3) 21(2), 26(3) 22(2) 6 A (6), 1 and Plan Plan and 11
Dangerous Play at Scrummage Dead Ball Dead Ball Line Defending Team Defending Player Delays Permitted	20 (3), 26 (3) Definition, 14 1, Plan, 14 Definition, 10, 12, 14
113
Illegal Dress Drop Kick Drop-Out Duration of Match	13(2), 20(1) (8). 23(B) Note (iv), 24 C. D, 27(2), 28(2) 4 10. 11. 13. 15,27,28 12 C (2). 14(4), 15 5
Fair Catch (Mark)	Definition, 16, 28
Ficld-of-Play	1
Five Metres	Plan
for Scrummage	12 D,14,20
for Line-out	23B (8) and (9)
for Penalty Kick.	27 (2)
for Free Kick	28(4)
Fifteen Metres	Plan
Flag	1 and Plan
Foul Play	26
Free Kick	16, 28, in red
	in Laws 20, 21, 22 and 23
Goal Scoring	11
Signalling	6B(6), (7)
Kick at	13,27
Goal Lines	1 and Plan
Try on.	12 A (2)
Off-side Line at Line-out 24 D	
Ground	1 and Plan
Grounding Ball	11,12
Hacking	26 (3)
Half-time	5 (3). 6 A (6). 10
Half-way Line	Plan, 10
Holding Opponent	23 B (15), 26 (3)
Hooker	20, Definition, 20 (6)
Illegal Tackles	26 (3)
In-goal	1 and Plan. 11, 12, 14. 16, 26 (Penalty (iii)), 28
In-goal Play	9 (2). 14
Try	12
114
International Matches Time 5 (2)
International Rugby Football Board 6A (3)
Interval 5 (3)
Jumping-Illegal	21(2). 22(2), 23B (15) (16)
Kick Kick-off Knock-on	Definition. 7 5 (1),7,10 17
Late Tackle Line-out Formation of Begins Throwing in the Ball. Quick Throw-in Peeling off Restriction on Players Off-side at On-side at	26(3) 23 B 23 B (11) 23B(5).(6). (7), (8). (9), (10) 23 B (5)(c), (7). (9) 23 B (13). (14), (18) 23 B(15), (16), (17). (18). (19). (20) 24D(1), (2), (3) 24
Ends Line through the Mark (or Place) Lying with, on or Near the Ball	D (4). 25 (3) 23 B (12) Definition 18
Mark (Fair Catch) Maul Method of Scoring Misconduct Mode of Play National Representative Team No-side Notes Number of Players	Definition. 16,28 22. 24 C. 25 (3) 11 26(1), (2), (3) 7 3 (4) 6 B (6) 5. 6 A (6) In blue print throughout Laws 3
Obstruction. Off-side in General Play at Scrummage at Ruck or Maul	26(1), (3) 24 A 24 B 24 C
115
at Line-out	24 D
Offside Line	Definition 24 B.C.D
On-sidc	7. 12 A (1). 25
Options 10 (2). (3), (4). 15. 23 B, (7), (9), 24 D, 26. 27. 28	
Pass	7. 18(1), 25 (2) (3)
Peeling-off	Definitions, 23B. (13), (14), (18)
Penalties	In red print throughout Laws
Penalty Kick	27
Penalty Try	12B. 26,
Picking up the Ball	7. I2A(3), 17(2), 18,20(16) (c). 21 (2)(d)
Place Kick	10,13,27,28
Plan of Field.	1
Players - Dress	4,6
Hurt	5(4),6A(7) (8) (c), and 16(d)
In the Line-out	23B (1), (15), (16). (17), (18). (19). (20)
Leaving Playing Enclosure or Resuming 6 A (8) (c)	
Misconduct	6 A (8). 26
Number of	3
Ordered off	26
Participating in Line-out	23B, (20). 24 C (2). 24 D (1) (2),
Reported to the Union	26
Touching Referee	9
Playing Enclosure	1.6 A (7), 6 A (8) (c)
Playing time lost	5
Props	20
Punt	Definition
Pushing an Opponent	23 B (15), 26(1). (3)
Referee - Appointment and Duties	6A
Repeated Infringement of Laws	26 (2)
Replacements	3
Ruck	21. 24 C
Sand & Sawdust - Use of.
Scoring, Method of
Scrummage
10. 13. 27
11
20
116
Beginning of
Binding in
Entering from Opponents’ Side
Forcing Way Through
Off-side and Off-side Line
Pushed Over Goal Line
Putting Ball into
Restrictions on Players in
Start of Match
Stoppage of Match
Stoppage of Play
Striking an Opponent
Studs
Tackle, Lying with, on or near the ball
Tackled Player
Ten Metres Line at Kick-off
at Line-out
Throw-forward
Time
Timekeeper
Toss
Touch
Throwing in from
Throwing into
Touch-down
Touch-in-Goal
Touch Judges - Appointment and Duties
Touch Line
Trampling
Tripping
Try
Twenty-two Metres Line
Unconverted Try
Undue Delay
Unfair Play
Union
20(10)
20 (6)
24 B
26(l)(c)
24 B
12 A (2)
14,20 (7), (8), (9). (10), (11)
20 (12),(13),(14),(15),(16)
6A (6) (a). 7
5. 6 A (6) (b)
5, 6A (6) (b)
6 (3) (a)
4(3)
7, 18
18
l.Plan, 10(2)
24 D, Definition
17
5
6 A (3)
5
1,23 A
6 B, 23 B
26(2)
6, 9. 12 C, 14
1, Plan, 6 B (4), 14 Definition
6B
l.Plan, 23 B
26(3)
26(3)(b)
9,11,12,14,26
l.Plan, 14. 15, 16
10
13 (2). 27 (2), 28
26(2)
Definition
117
Upright
Waste of Time
Whistle
Wilful Obstruction and Foul Play
Collapsing of Scrummage
Knock-on or Throw Forward
Kicking Out of Scrummage
Misleading of Opponents
Persistant Infringements
Throw into Touch
1, Plan
26(2)(b)
6 A (6)
26(1), (2), (3)
20(16)(d), 26(3)(h)
17(1)
20(14) (d)
13, 20 (17) (b), 21(2)(b). 22(2)(d), 28
26 (2) (d)
26 (2) (c)