DEFINITIONS
/Advantage - Law 8 - Advantage
Attacking Team - the team who are in their opponents half when the play is taking
place there.
Ball-carrier - a player carrying the ball
Beyond or Behind or In Front of a Position - with both feet, except where the context
makes that inappropriate
Binding - grasping firmly another player's body from the shoulder to the hips with the
whole arm from hand to shoulder
Cavalry Charge - Law 10 ■ Foul Play
Conversion Kick Law 9 - Method of Scoring
Converted - a conversion kick that was successful
Dangerous Play - Law 10 - Foul play
Dead - the ball is out of play. This happens when the ball has gone outside the playing
area and remained there, or when the referee has blown the whistle to indicate a
stoppage, or when a conversion kick has been taken
Dead Ball Line - Law 1 - The Ground
Defending Team - the team in whose half of (he ground play is taking place; their
opponents are the Attacking Team
Drop Kick - the ball is dropped from the hand or hands to the ground and kicked as it
nses from its first bounce
Drop Out - Law 13 - Kick-off and Restart kicks
Dropped Goal - Law 9 - Method of Scoring
Field-of-Play - Law 1 - The Ground
Flanker - forward player who usually wears jersey No.6 or No.7
Flying Wedge - Law 10 - Foul Play
Foul Play - Law 10 - Foul Play
Free Kick - a kick awarded to the non-offending team for an infringement by their
opponents; unless a law states otherwise, a free kick awarded because of an
infringement is awarded at (he place of infringement
Front Row Players - forward players who are made up of loose-head prop, hooker and
tight-head prop
Goal-line - Law I - The Ground
Grounding the Ball • Law 22 - In-goal
Half Time • the interval between the two halves of the game
Hindmost Fool - the foot of the hindmost player in a scrum, ruck or maul which is
nearest that player's goal-line
Hooker - the middle front row player in a scrum
In-field - away from touch and towards the middle of the field
In-goal - Law 22 - In-goal
Kick - a kick is made by hitting the ball with any part of the leg or fool, except the
heel, from the toe to the knee but not including the knee; a kick must move the ball a
visible distance out of the hand, or along the ground
Kick-off ■ Law 13 - Kick-off and Restart Kicks
5
t io tc nock-on or Throw-forward
£!">.1m ,hc placc wiKre
""e P™1"110 ""■' M
Uns Throw - Law 19 • Touch. Unroot and Line-out Off-side
Softer -die ot-Xton'rcX'S" ^Te match which may be a union.
J “Xofimtons or an o^anisailon affiliated to the ln.emat.onal Rugby Board
Mark - Law IS - Mark
Maul ■ Law 15 - Maul
No side - the end of the match.
Obstruction - Law 10 - Foul Play . .
Off-side in Open Play - Law 11 - Off-side and On-side in general play
Off-side Line - an imaginary line across (he ground, from one touch-line to the other,
parallel to the goal-lines; the position of this line varies according to the Law
Off-side the 10 Metre Law - Law 11 - Off-side and On-side in General Play
On-side - Law 11 - Off-side and On-side in General Play
Open or Bleeding Wound - Law 3 - Number of Players - The Team
Out of Play - this happens when the ball or the ball carrier has gone into touch or
touch-in-goal, or touched or crossed the dead-ball line
Oversteps - a player steps across a line with one or both feet, the line may be real (for
example, goal-line) or imaginary (for example, off-side line)
Pass - a player throws the ball to another player, if a player hands the ball to another
player without throwing it, this is also a pass
Peeling Off - Law 19 - Touch, Line-out and Line-out Off-side
Penalty Goal - Law 9 Method of Scoring
Penalty Kick - a kick awarded to (he non-offending team for an infringement by their
opponents; unless a Law says otherwise, a penalty kick is awarded at the place of
infringement
Penalty Try - Law 10 - Foul Play
Place Kick - the ball is kicked after it has been placed on the ground for that purpose
P acer - a player who holds the ball on the ground for a team-mate to kick
Played - the ball is played when it is touched by a player
Playing Area - Law I - The Ground
Playing Enclosure - Law 1 - The Ground
its^omioF .hhCR n P'ayCr “ ,hC ba" Or a ,cam has the bal1 in
possesion' P ba" °nC ha,f Of a scnjm or in that team’s
Prop • a front row player
g™„dta" “ d'°PPCd f,Om lhc hand °r tands and kickcd berore it touches the
Pushover Try, Law 22-In-goal
6
Receiver ■ Law 19 - Touch. Line-out and Linc-out Off-side
Repeated Infringements - Law 10 - Foul Play
Replacements - Law 3 - Number of players - The Team
Ruck - Law 16 - Ruck
Scrum - formerly named ‘scrummage’; this happens when players from each team
come together in scrum formation so that play can be started by throwing the ball into
the scrum
Scrum Half - a player nominated to throw the ball into a scrum
Substitutes - Law 3 - Number of Players - The Team
Tackle - Law 15 - Tackle: Ball-carrier Brought to the Ground
Team-mate - another player of the same team
The 22 - Law I - The Ground
Throw-forward - Law 12 - Knock-on or Throw-forward
Throw-in - the act of the player who throws in to scrum or line-out
Tight-head Prop - the right front row player in a scrum
Touch - Law 19 - Touch. Line-out and Line-out Off-side
Touch Down - Law 22 - In-goal
Touch-line - Law 1 - The Ground
Touch-In-Goal Line - Law 1 - The Ground
Touch Judge - Law 6 - Match Officials
Try - Law 9 - Method of Scoring
Union - the controlling body under whose jurisdiction the match is played; for an
international match it means the International Rugby Board or a Committee of the
Board
7
Rugby Union is a sport which involves physical contact. Any sport involving physical
contact has inherent dangers. Il is very important that players play the game in I
accordance with the Laws of the Game and be mindful of the safely of themselves and j
others. It is the responsibility of those who coach or teach the game to ensure that
players arc prepared in a manner which ensures compliance with the Laws of the
Game and in accordance with safe practices.
8
iRB
INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
BEFORE THE MATCH
Law 1
Law 2
Law 3
Law 4
Law 5
Law 6
The Ground
The Ball
Number of Players - The Team
Players' Clothing
Time
Match Officials
9
BEFORE THE MATCH
The following six Laws of the Game cover ail (he necessary requirements before the
match can proceed.
These laws outline the need for a ground with specific measurements and a ball of
specified size, weight and air pressure.
These laws recognise the need for two teams and indicate what they can wear to play
the game of rugby
These laws also indicate the lime constraints placed on a rugby match and outline the
role of the match officials.
10
LAW I - THE GROUND
■RB
LAW 1 - THE GROUND
DEFINITIONS
The Ground is the total area shown on the plan. The Ground includes:
The Field-of-play is the area (as shown on the plan) between the goal-lines and the
touch-lines. These lines are not part of the field-of-play.
The Playing Area is the field-of-play and the in-goal areas (as shown on the plan).
The touch-lines, touch-in-goal lines and dead-ball lines arc not part of the playing area.
The Playing Enclosure
is the playing area and a
space around it, not less
than 5 metres where
practicable, which is
known as the perimeter
area.
In-goal is the area
between the goal-line and
the dead-ball line, and
between the touch-in-goal
lines. It includes the
goal-line but it does not
include the dead-ball line
or the touch-in-goal lines.
‘The 22’ is the area
between the goal-line and
the 22-mctre line,
including the 22-metrc
line but excluding the
goal-line.
The Plan, including all
the words and figures on
it, is part of the laws.
<7 THE PLAYING AREA
/—INDICATES POST WUHEIAG (»'lh3WlliUfflTL2MnilSASMGRaiim)
TOUCH UNI
DEAD BALL UNE
AREA
5 METRE
INDICATED
-I5METRE
INVCATED
| -LOMUREJJNE
HAlF-VtAYUNE
22 M TREUNE
GOAL UNI
IN GOAL
NOT MORE THAN 70 METRES
	
' GOAL UNE	
Ht-GOAl
10 METRE UNE
NOT MORE THAN 72 METRES
OR LESS THAN 10 METRES

11
iRB
LAW I - THE GROUND
SURFACE OF THE PLAYING ENCLOSURE
Surface. The surface is gms. bur if (his is no. possible ir may be day or sand.
provided ir is nor dangerous. Any pemanemly hard surface, for example
asphalt or cement, is prohibited.
REQUIRED DIMENSIONS FOR THE PLAYING ENCLOSURE
(a)	Dimensions. The field-of-play does not exceed 100 metres in length and 70
metres in width. Each in-goal does not exceed 22 metres in length and 70
metres in width.
(b)	The length and breadth of the playing area are as near as possible to the
dimensions indicated. All (he areas are rectangular.
(c)	The distance from the goal-line to the dead-ball line is not less than 10 metres
where practicable.
3 LINES ON THE PLAYING ENCLOSURE
(a)	Solid lines
The dead ball lines and touch-in-goal lines, both of which are outside the in-
goal areas;
The goal-lines, which are within the In-goal areas but outside the field-of-play.
The 22-metre lines; which are parallel to the goal-lines
The half-way line which is parallel to the goal-lines; and
The touch-lines which are outside the field-of-play.
(b)	Broken Lines
Which from « to rhe orher. parallel ro rhe
12
LAW 1 - THE GROUND
iRB
(c) Dash Lincs
Six lines, each 1 metre long, 5 metres in from each of the goal-lines, positioned
5 metres and 15 metres from each touch-line and one in front of each goal post.
Seven dash lines, each I metre long, 15 metres in from each of the touch-lines,
intersecting the goal-lines, the 22-metre lines, the 10-meirc lines and the half-
way line and ending at the goal-lines.
One dash line of half a metre long intersects the centre of the half way line.
All the lines must be suitably marked out according to the plan.
4	DIMENSIONS FOR GOAL POSTS AND CROSS BARS
(a)	The distance between rhe two goal posts is 5.6 metres.
(b)	The crossbar is placed between the two goal posts so that its top edge is 3.0
metres from the ground.
(c)	The minimum height of the goal posts is 3.4 metres.
(d)	When padding is attached to the goal-posts the distance from the goal-line to the
external edge of the padding must not exceed 300mm.
13
■RB
LAW I - THE GROUND
5 FLAG POSTS
(a)	There are 14 flag posts with flags, each with a minimum height of 1.2 metres
above the ground.
(b)	Hag posts must be positioned at the intersection of touch-in-goal lines and the
goal-lines and at the intersection of the touch-in-goal lines and the dead ball
lines. These eight flag posts are outside the in-goal area and do not form pan
of the playing area.
(c)	Hag posts must be positioned in line with the 22-metre lines and the half-way
line, 2 metres outside the touch-lines and within the playing enclosure.
6 OBJECTIONS TO THE GROUND
(a) If either team has objections about the ground or the way it is marked out they
must tell the referee before the match starts. y
(b) The referee will attempt to resolve the issues but must not start a match if any
pan of the ground is considered to be dangerous. * }
14
LAW 2 - THE BALL
iRB
LAW 2 - THE BALL
1	SHAPE
The ball must be oval and made of four panels.
2	DIMENSIONS
Length in line
Circumference (end to end)
Circumference (in width)
280 - 300 millimetres
760 - 790 millimetres
580 - 620 millimetres
3	MATERIALS
Leather or similar synthetic material.
It may be treated to make it resistant to
mud and easier to grip.
4	WEIGHT
400 - 440 grams
5	AIR PRESSURE AT THE
START OF PLAY
0.67 - 0.70 kilograms per square
centimetre, or 9>/2 -10 lbs per square
inch.
6	SPARE BALLS
Spare balls may be available during a match, but a team must not gain or
attempt to gain an unfair advantage by using them or changing them.
7	SMALLER BALLS
The dimensions and weight of the ball may be reduced for matches between
young players.
15
■RB
LAW 3. number of PLAYERSJ2!£I£^L
LAW 3 ■ NUMBER OF PLAYERS ■ THE TEAM
definitions
A Team. A learn consists of fifteen players who start the match plus any authorised
replacements and'or substitutes.
Replacement. A player who replaces an injured ream male.
Substitute. A player who replaces a ream male for raeueal reasons.
I maximum number OF PLAYERS on the playing area
Maximum: each team must have no more (han fifteen players on the playing
area.
2 TEAM WITH MORE THAN THE PERMITTED NUMBER OF
PLAYERS
Objection: at any time before or during a match a team may make an objection
to the referee about the number of players in their opponents' team. As soon as
the referee knows that a team has too many players, the referee must order the
captain of that team to reduce the number appropriately. The score at the time
of the objection remains unaltered.
3 WHEN THERE ARE FEWER THAN FIFTEEN PLAYERS
A Union may authorise matches to be played with fewer than fifteen players in
each team. When that happens, all the Laws of the Game apply except that
each team must have at least five players in the scrum at all times.
Exception: matches between teams of seven-a-side are an exception These
matches are covered by the Seven-a-Sidc Variations to the Laws of the Game.
PLAYERS NOMINATED AS SUBSTITUTES
For international matches a Union may nominate up to seven
replacements/substituies. For other matches, the Union with jurisdiction over
the match decides how many replaccments/substitutcs may be nominated.
16
LAW 3 - NUMBER OF PLAYERS - THE TEAM
■RB
5	SUITABLY TRAINED AND EXPERIENCED PLAYERS IN THE
FRONT ROW
(a)	The table below indicates the numbers of suitably trained and experienced
players for the front row when nominating different numbers of players.
No. of Players	Number of Suitably Trained and Experienced Players
15 or less	3 players who can play in the front row
16, 17 or 18	4 players who can play in the front row
19, 20,21 or 22	5 players who can play in the front row
(b)	Each player in the front row and the potential replacement must be suitably
trained and experienced.
The replacement of a front row forward may come from suitably trained and
experienced players who started the match or from the nominated
replacements.
6	SENT OFF FOR FOU L PLAY
A player sent off for foul play must not be replaced or substituted. For an
exception to this Law, refer to Law 3 14 Page 19.
7	PERMANENT REPLACEMENT
A player may be replaced if injured. If (he player is permanently replaced, that
player must not return and play in that match. The replacement of the injured
player must be made when the ball is dead and with the permission of the
referee.
8	THE DECISION FOR PERMANENT REPLACEMENT
(a)	When a national representative team is playing in a match, a player may be
replaced only when, in the opinion of a doctor, the player is so injured that it
would be unwise for that player to continue playing in that match.
17
?RB
LAW 3 • NUMBER OF PLAYERS - THE TEAM_
(b)
9
In other matches. person. If none is
THE REFEREE’S POWER TO STOP AN INJURED PLAYER FROM
CONTINUING
,flh. rereree decides - wi.h or wilhou. the advice of a doctor or other medically
™rl rXrson- that a player is so injured that the player should stop play t ng.
?he may order that player to leave the playing area, rhe referee may
also onkr an injured player to leave the field tn order to be medically
examined.
10 TEMPORARY REPLACEMENT
(a)	When a player leaves the field to have bleeding controlled and/or an open
wound covered, that player may be temporarily replaced. There is no time limit
on that player's absence from the match.
(b)	If the replacement is injured, that player may also be replaced.
(c)	If the replacement is sent off for foul play, the replaced player may not return
to the field-of-play.
11 PLAYER WISHING TO REJOIN THE MATCH
(a) A playcr who has an open or bleeding wound must leave the playing area. The
player must not return until the bleeding is controlled and the wound has been
covered.
(b)	A player who leaves a match because of injury or any other reason must not
rejoin the match until the referee permits the playcr to return. The referee must
not let a player rejoin a match until the ball is dead,
(c)
(d)
Mch""houllhc rcfcrert permission, and .he referee
X St r” P lha' player’s ,cam °r lhc opposing
team, the referee penalises the playcr for misconduct.
'“jf OffT' ““ ™ volumary ta.erferer.ee bu. .he
a SttS “ from ’he m'um. .he referee ordem
the ball. * J 'ncd lhe matchl3,1(1 ,he opposing team throws in
18
iRB
LAW 3 . NUMBER OF PLAYERS • THE TEAM
12	NUMBER OF SUBSTITUTIONS
A team can substitute up to two front row players and up to five other players.
Substitutions may only be made when the ball is dead and with the permission
of the referee.
13	SUBSTITUTED PLAYERS REJOINING THE MATCH
If a player is substituted, that player must not return and play in that match even
to replace an injured player.
Exception I: a substituted player may replace a player with a bleeding or open
wound.
Exception 2: a substituted player may replace a front row player when injured,
temporarily suspended or sent off.
14	FRONT ROW FORWARD SENT OFF OR TEMPORARILY
SUSPENDED
(a)	If a front row player is sent off or temporarily suspended the referee will ask
that player's captain whether or not the team has another player on the field of
play who is suitably trained to play in the front row. If not, the captain chooses
any player from that team. That player leaves the field-of-play and is replaced
by a suitably trained front-row player from the team's replacements. The
captain may do this either immediately or after another player has been tried in
the front row.
(b) Furthermore, if. because of sending-off or injury, a team cannot provide enough
suitably trained front-row players, the match continues with uncontested
scrums (14 (c)).
(c)	An uncontested scrum is the same as a normal scrum, except that the teams do
not compete for the ball, the team throwing in the ball must win it. and neither
team is allowed to push, and:
In a full scrum, the formation must be 3-4-1 (i.e., 3-4-1 in the front, second and
third rows respectively).
If a team is one player short, then both teams must be in a 3-4 formation (i.e.
with no No.8).
If a team is two players short, then both teams must be in a 3-2-1 formation (i.e.
no flankers).
If a team is three players short, then both teams must be in a 3-2 formation
(i.e. only front rows and locks).
19
■RB
LAW 4 ■ PLAYERS CLOTHING.
LAW 4 - PLAYERS* CLOTHING
DEFINITION
Players' clothing is anything players wear.
A player wears a jersey, shorts and underwear, socks and boots.
1 ADDITIONAL ITEMS OF CLOTHING
(a)	A player may wear sappons made of elasucaied or compressible material,
which must be washable.
(b)	A olaycr may wear shin guards worn under the socks with padding
incorporated in non-ngid fabric with no pan of the padding thicker than 0.5 cm
when compressed
(c)	A player may wear ankle supports worn under socks, not extending higher than
one third of the length of the shin and. if rigid, from material other than metal.
(d)	A player may wear mitts (fingerless gloves).
(e)	A player may wear shoulder pads, made of soft and thin materials, which may
be incorporated in an undergarment or jersey provided that the pads cover the
shoulder and collar bone only. No part of the pads may be thicker than I cm
when uncompressed. No pan of the pads may have a density of more than 45
kilograms per cubic metre
(f)	A player may wear a mouth guard or dental protector.
(g)	A player may wear headgear made of soft and thin materials provided that no
part of the headgear is thicker than I cm when uncompressed and no part of the
headgear has a density of more than 45 kilograms per cubic metre.
(h)	A player may wear bandages and/or dressings to cover or protect any injury.
0 prcve3m iniu^ ,hi" Or °‘hCr SimHar ma,Crial 33 suPP°n and/or 10
20
,aW 4-PLAYERS CLOTHING
nlKJK
SPECIAL ADDITIONAL ITEMS FOR WOMEN
Besides the previous items, women may wear chest pads made of soft and thin
materials which may be incorporated as part of a garment provided that he
nads cover the shoulder and/or collar bone and/or chest only with no part of the
pads thicker than I cm when uncompressed and no part of the pads having a
density of more than 45 kilograms per cubic metre.
3
4
(a)
(b)
(c)
thickness and density
The measurement of thickness and density includes any other material
incorporated in the pads or used to secure the pads to the body.
STUDS
Studs of players’ boots must conform to British Standard BS6366 1983 or an
equivalent standard.
(d)
5
(a)
(b)
(c)
Sluds of players’ boots must be circular.
and securely fastened to the sole of the
boot.
Sluds of players' boots must have the
following dimensions:
Not longer than 18 mm, measured from
the sole; a minimum diameter of 10 mm
at the top of the stud; a minimum
diameter of 13 mm at the base of the stud
(excluding the washer): and a minimum
diameter of 20 mm at the base where the
stud integrates with the washer.
Moulded rubber multi-studded soles are
acceptable provided they have no sharp
edges or ridges.
BANNED ITEMS OF CLOTHING
CORRECT SIZE OF STUDS
The maximum and minimum dimensions
ot a stud are shown here. Alternatively, a
player may wear boots with moulded
rubber multi-studded soles
A playcr must not wear any item that is contaminated by blood.
A playcr must not wear any item that is sharp or abrasive.
^in^«Cr mUS‘ n°‘twear any ilems containing buckles, clips, rings, hinges.
under thiTlaw.5' 60 ,5 °r r'8'd malCrial °r projection not otherwise permitted
21
■rb
LAW 4 - PLAYERS CLOTHING
(d)
(e)
(0
(g)
(h)
(i)
6
A player must not went Jewellery such as rings or earrings.
A player must not wear gloves.
A player must not wear shorts with padding sewn into them.
. WMF inv item of which any part is thicker than 0.5 cm when
X’tpS or is denserthan 45 kilograms per cubic metre unless specified
within this law.
A player must not wear any item that is normally permitted by law. but. in the
referee’s opinion that is liable to cause injury to a player.
A player must not wear a single stud at the toe of the boot
AUTHORISED MARK FOR PADDED ITEMS
From I October 2000. shoulder pads, headgear and chest pads must bear the
authorised mark of the 1RB to indicate that they conform to this law.
7 INSPECTION OF PLAYERS’ CLOTHING
(a)	The referee or the touch judges appointed by or under the authority of the
match organiser inspect the players' clothing and studs for conformity to this
law.
(b)	The referee has power to decide at any time, before or during the match, that
part of a player's clothing is dangerous or illegal. If the referee decides that
clothing is dangerous or illegal the referee must order the player to remove it
The player must not take pan in the match until the items of clothing are
removed.
(c)	If, at an inspection before the match, the referee or a touch judge tells a player
that an item banned under this law is being worn, and the player is subsequently
found to be wearing that item on the field-of-play. that player is sent off for
misconduct.
8
Penalty: A penally kick is awarded at the place where play is restarted.
WEARING OTHER CLOTHING
sA™ orrSurtUi'inB °r Wi!.lli"E 10 wear any te!inS- Protection. padding.
aXtS ,tan ,ha'spccified wiihin ,his is na
^XTt^sS^" ",e playins ““ 10 chan8e i,en“
22
LAW 5-TIME
iRB
LAW 5 - TIME
I	DURATION OF A MATCH
A match lasts no longer than eighty minutes plus time lost, extra time and any
special conditions. A match is divided into two halves each of not more than
forty minutes playing time,
2	HALFTIME
After half time the teams change ends. There is an interval of not more than 10
minutes. The length of the interval is decided by the match organiser, the
Union or the recognised body which has jurisdiction over the game. During the
interval the teams, the referee and the touch judges may leave the playing
enclosure.
3	TIME KEEPING
The referee keeps the time but may delegate the duty to either or both the touch
judges in which case the referee signals to them any stoppage of time or time
lost. If the referee is in doubt as to the correct time the referee consults either
or both of the touch judges and may consult others but only if the touch judges
cannot help.
4	TIME LOST
Time lost may be due to the following:
(a)	Injury. The referee may stop play for not more than one minute so that an
injured player can be treated, or for any other permitted delay.
The referee may allow play to continue while a medically trained person treats
an injured player in the playing area or the player may go to the touch-line for
treatment.
If the referee believes that the player is feigning injury, the referee arranges for
the player to be removed from the playing area, and re-starts play at once.
Alternatively, the referee may allow play to continue while a medically trained
person examines the player in the playing area.
(b)	Replacing players' clothing. When the ball is dead, the referee allows time for
a player to replace or repair a badly tom jersey, shorts or boots. Time is
allowed for a player to re-tie a boot-lace.
23
■RB
LAW5-TIME------------------_-----------------------------------------------
(c)	Replacement and sabs.i.^n of p.ayers. T.n,e is al.owed when a phyerl,
replaced or substituted.
(d)	Report or rou> P>ay by a loucb Judge. Time » »'»->> judge
reports foul play.
5 making up for time lost
Any playing lime los. is made up in die same half of .he match.
6 PLAYING EXTRA TIME
A match may last more than eighty minutes if the Union has authorised the
playing of extra time in a drawn match in a knock-out competition
7 OTHER TIME REGULATIONS
(a)	In international matches, play always lasts eighty minutes plus lost time.
(b)	In non-intcmational matches a Union may decide the length of a match.
(c)	If the Union does not decide, the teams agree on the length of a match. If the)
cannot agree, the referee decides.
(d)	The referee has power to declare no side at any time, if the referee believes (ha
play should not go on because it would be dangerous.
(e)	If time expires and the ball is not dead or an awarded scrum, line-out. mark,
free kick or penally kick has not been completed, the referee allows play to
continue until the next time when (he ball becomes dead, unless a penalty kick
or free kick has been awarded.
(° !fOn^CXPrCt afl5r a,lfy has ken scored the referee allows time for the
conversion kick to be taken.
24
LAW 6 - MATCH OFFICIALS
■rb
LAW 6 - MATCH OFFICIALS
DEFINITIONS
Every match is under the control of Match Officials who consist of the Referee and (wo
Touch Judges, Additional persons as authorised by the match organisers may include
ihc referee and/or touch judge reserve, an official to assist the referee in making
decisions by using technological devices, the time keeper, the Match Doctor, the team
doctors, the non-playing members of the teams and the ball persons.
A. REFEREE
BEFORE THE MATCH
1	APPOINTING THE REFEREE
The referee is appointed by (he match organiser. If no referee has been
appointed the two teams may agree upon a referee. If they cannot agree, the
home team appoints a referee.
2	REPLACING THE REFEREE
If the referee is unable to complete the match, the referee's replacement is
appointed according to the instructions of the match organiser. If the match
organiser has given no instructions, the referee appoints the replacement. If the
referee cannot do so, the home team appoints a replacement.
3	DUTIES OF THE REFEREE BEFORE THE MATCH
(a)	Toss. The referee organises the toss. One of the captains tosses a coin and the
other captain calls to sec who wins the toss. The winner of the toss decides
whether to kick-off or to choose an end. If the winner of the toss decides to
choose an end, the opponents must kick-off and vice versa.
(b)	Players' clothing Inspection. The referee must inspect the players' clothing to
ensure it is in compliance with Law 4. The referee may delegate responsibility
for the inspection of players’ clothing to the touch judges.
(c)	Touch judges. The referee may instruct the touch judges as to their duties.
4	LIMITATION ON THE REFEREE
The referee must not give advice to either team before the match.
25
iRB
LAW 6 - MATCH OFFICIALS-----------------
(a)
(b)
during THE match
•r„E OUT.ES OFTI.E REFEREE IN THE PLAY.NG ENCLOSURE
c • .h, iudcc of fact and of law during a match. The referee must
A^miser has authorised the application of an experimental
tai app™d by (he lRB CM,ncil’ lhC Kkm may !'PPly lhCSC hWS in
prescribed matches.
(c)	The referee keeps the time.
(d)	The referee keeps the score.
(e)	The referee gives permission to the players to leave the playing area.
(f)	The referee gives permission to the replacements or substitutes to enter the
playing area.
(g)	The referee gives permission to the team doctors or medically trained persons
or their assistants to enter the playing area, as and when permitted by the Law.
(h)	The referee gives permission to each of the coaches to enter the playing area at
half time to attend their teams during the interval.
6 PLAYERS DISPUTING A REFEREE'S DECISION
All players must respect the authority of the referee. They must not dispute the
referee s decisions. They must stop playing at once when the referee blows the
whistle except at a kick-off.
7 REFEREE ALTERING A DECISION
8 REFEREE CONSULTING WITH OTHERS
ma,,m relali"8 10 ,htir
26
LAW 6 - MATCH OFFICIALS
iRB
(b)	A match organiser may appoint an official who uses technological devices. If
the referee is unsure when making a decision in in-goal involving a try being
scored or a touch down, that official may be consulted.
(c)	The official may be consulted in relation to the success or otherwise of kicks at
goal.
(d)	The official may be consulted if the referee or touch judge is unsure if a player
was or was not in-touch when attempting to ground the "ball to score a try.
(c)	The official may be consulted if the referee or touch judges are unsure when
making decisions relating to touch-in-goal and the ball being made dead if a
score may have occurred.
(f)	A match organiser may appoint a time keeper who will signify the end of each
half.
(g)	The referee must not consult with any other persons.
9	THE REFEREE’S WHISTLE
(a)	The referee must carry a whistle and blow the whistle to indicate the beginning
and end of each half of (he match.
(b)	The referee has power to stop play at any time,
(c)	The referee must blow the whistle to indicate a score, or a touch-down.
(d)	The referee must blow the whistle to stop play because of an infringement or
for an offence of foul play. When the referee cautions or sends off the offender.
the referee must whistle a second time when the penalty kick or penally try is
awarded.
(e)	The referee must blow the whistle when the ball has gone out of play, or when
it has become unplayable, or when a penalty is awarded.
(f)	The referee must blow the whistle when the ball or the ball-carrier touches the
referee and either team gains an advantage from this.
(g)	The referee must blow the whistle when it would be dangerous to let play
continue. This includes when a scrum collapses, or when a front-row player is
lifted into the air or is forced upwards out of a scrum, or when it is probable
that a player has been seriously injured.
27
«RB
LAW 6 MATCH OFFICIALS
(h)	The referee nwy .he » ** **
to the laws.
io	YELLOW AND RED CARDS
(a)	When a player has keen cautioned the referee will show that player a yellow
card.
(W When . player hn, been sen. off. .he referee will show .ha. player a red card
II	THE REFEREE AND INJURY
(a) If a player is injured and continuation of play would be dangerous, the referee
must blow the whistle immediately.
(h)	If the referee stops play because a player has been injured, and there has been
no infringement and the ball has not been made dead, play restarts with a
scrum. The team last in possession throws in the ball If neither team was in
possession, the attacking team throws in the ball.
(c) The referee must blow the whistle if continuation of play would be dangerous
for any reason.
12	THE BALLTOUCHING THE REFEREE
(a) If the ball or the ball-carrier touches the referee and neither team gains an
advantage, play continues.
(b)	If either team gains an advantage in the field -of play, the referee orders a scrum
and the team that last played the ball has the throw-in.
(c)	If either team gains an advantage in in-goal, if the ball is in possession of an
attacking player the referee awards a try where the contact took place.
(d)	'Ca? 8ainsLan advan,aee in-goal, if the ball is in possession of a
place P ^Cr* 'he re^crce awards a touch-down where the contact took
13 the ball in in-goaltouched by non-player
ihd™ and ””rds a
28
LAW 6 - MATCH OFFICIALS
■rb
after the match
14 SCORE
The referee communicates the score to the teams and to the match organiser.
15	PLAYER SENT-OFF
If a player is sent off the referee gives the match organiser a written report on
the foul play infringement as soon as possible.
B. TOUCH JUDGES
BEFORE THE MATCH
1	APPOINTING TOUCH JUDGES
There are two touch judges for every match. Unless they have been appointed
by or under the authority of the match organiser, each team provides a touch
judge.
2	REPLACING A TOUCH JUDGE
The match organiser may nominate a person to act as a replacement for the
referee or the touch judges. This person is called the reserve touch judge and
stands in the perimeter area.
3	CONTROL OF TOUCH JUDGES
The referee has control over both touch judges. The referee may tell them what
their duties are. and may overrule their decisions. If a touch judge is
unsatisfactory the referee may ask that the touch judge be replaced. If the
referee believes a touch judge is guilty of misconduct, the referee has power to
send the touch judge off and make a report to the match organiser.
29
LAW 6 - MATCH OFFICIALS
igB
DURING THE MATCH
4
(a)
WHERE THE TOUCH JUDGES SHOULD BE
There is one touch judge on each side of the ground. The touch judge re
in touch except when judging a kick at goal. When judging a kick at eoTi?
touch judges stand in in-goal behind the goal posts. " ‘ fr • the
(b) A touch judge may enter the playing area when reporting an offence of
dangerous play or misconduct io the referee The touch judge may do this only
at the next stoppage in play.
TOUCH JUDGE SIGNALS
(a)
(b)
(0
Each touch judge carries a flag or something similar
with which to signal decisions.
Signalling result of kick at goal. When a conversion
kick or a penalty kick at goal is being taken, the touch
judges must help the referee by signalling the result of
the kick. One touch judge stands at or behind each
goal post If the ball goes over the cross-bar and
between the posts, the touch judge raises the flag to
indicate a goal.
Signalling touch. When
the ball or the ball-earner
has gone into touch, the
touch judge must hold up
the flag. The touch judge
must stand at the place of
throw-in and point to the
team entitled to throw m.
The touch judge must
also signal when the ball
or the ball carrier has
gone into touch-in-goal
30
LAW 6 MATCH OFFICIALS
iRB
(d)	When to keep the nag raised. When the ball is thrown in, the touch judge
must lower the Hag, with the following exceptions:
Exception 1: When the player throwing in puts any part of either foot in the
field-of-play, the touch judge keeps the Gag up.
Exception 2: When the team not entitled to throw-in has done so, the touch
judge keeps the flag up
(e)
(0
Exception 3: When, at a quick
throw-in. the ball that went into
touch is replaced by another ball,
or after it went into or it has been
touched by anyone except the
player who takes the throw-in, the
touch judge keeps the flag up.
It is for the referee, and not the
touch judge, to decide whether or
not the ball was thrown in from
the correct place.
Signalling dangerous play. A
touch judge signals that
dangerous play or misconduct has
been seen by holding the flag
horizontally and pointing infield
at right angles to the touch-line.
31
I AW 6- MATCH OFFICIALS
■RB
after signalling foul play
A ™rch nreaniser may give authority to the touch judge to signal for foul p|ay
k signals foul play, the touch judge must stay in touch anj
If a touchi judg s g 0Ifer duties until (he next stoppage in play. Th,.
ZhH e may then enter the playing area to report the offence to the referee
S Xw may then take whatever action is needed. Any penalty awarded
Will be in accordance with the law of foul play (Law 10).
AFTER THE MATCH
7 PLAYER SENT-OFF
If a player has been sent-off following a touch judge's signal, the touch judge
submits a written report about (he incident to the referee as soon as possible
after the match and provides it to the match organiser.
C. ADDITIONAL PERSONS
1 RESERVE TOUCH JUDGE
When a reserve touch judge is appointed, the referee's authority regarding
replacements and substitutions may be delegated to the reserve (ouch judge. "
2 THOSE WHO MAY ENTER THE PLAYING AREA
3
The match doctor and the non-playing members of the team may enter the
playing area as authorised by the referee.
LIMITS TO ENTERING THE PLAYING AREA
Mntim.« nrn ’CntCr thC P1^ Whi,C Pla>
enteS whpV‘^d P6™55'0" from lhc referee. Otherwise, they
enter only when the ball is dead.
32
LAW 7 - DURING THE MATCH • METHOD OF PLAYING THE MATCI I iBJ?
iRB
IHTIRHAT1ONAL RUGBY BOARD
DURING THE MATCH
Method of Playing the Match
Law	7	Mode of Play
Law	8	Advantage
Law	9	Method of Scoring
Law	10	Foul Play
Law	II	Off-side/On-side in General Play
Law	12	Knock-on or Throw Forward
LA\V 7 - MODE OF PLAY
■Be
HOW THE GAME IS PLAYED
All the necessary requirements for the game to commence have been covered n,
following five laws indicate how the game is played. The Laws cover the mode of ie
(Law 7), how continuity of the game is maintained through the appficat
advantage (Law S), how a team scores (Law 9). the requirement of players to *°n
on-side (Law II), the need for players to play within the Laws of the Game a JClTl3’n
commit acts of foul play (Law 10). While playing the game it is possible that t"l '°
knock the ball on or throw it forward in contravention of the law (Law 12)
LAW 7- MODE OF PLAY
PLAYING A MATCH
A match is started by a kick-off
After the kick-off, any player who is on-side may take the ball and run with it.
Any player may throw it or kick it.
Any player may give the ball to another player.
Any player may tackle, hold or shove an opponent holding the ball.
Any player may fall on the ball.
Any player may take part in a scrum, nick, maul or line-out.
Any player may ground the ball in an in-goal.
Whatever a player does must be in accordance with the Laws of the Game.
34
LAW 8 - ADVANTAGE
irb
LAW 8 - ADVANTAGE
definition
The law of advantage takes precedence over most other laws and its purpose is to make
play more continuous with fewer stoppages for infringements. Players are encouraged
to play to the whistle despite infringements by their opponents. When the result of an
infringement by one team is (hat their opposing team may gain an advantage, the
referee does not whistle immediately for the infringement.
1	ADVANTAGE IN PRACTICE
(a)	The referee is sole judge of whether or not a team has gained an advantage.
The referee has wide discretion when making decisions.
(b)
(O
(d)
2
Advantage can be cither
territorial or tactical.
Territorial advantage
means a gain in ground.
Tactical advantage means
freedom for the non-
offending team to play the
ball as they wish.
WHEN ADVANTAGE
DOES NOT ARISE
The advantage must be
clear and real. A mere
opportunity to gain
advantage is not enough.
If the non-offending team
docs not gain an
advantage, the referee
blows the whistle and
brings play back to the
place of infringement.
35
LAW S - ADVANTAGE
■rb
3
(a)
(b)
WHEN THE ADVANTAGE LAW IS NOT APPLIED
Referee contact. Advantage must not be applied when the ball, or a
carrying it, touches the referee. ’ 1 P*ayer
Ball out of tunnel. Advantage must not be applied when the ball conies out of
either end of (he tunnel at a scrum without having been played.
(c)	Wheeled scrum. Advantage must not be applied when the scrum is wheeled
through more than 90 degrees (so that the middle line has passed beyond a
position parallel to (he touch-line).
(d)	Collapsed scrum. Advantage must not be applied when a semm collapses.
The referee must blow the whistle immediately
(e)	Player lifted in the air. Advantage must not be applied when a player in a
scrum is lifted in (he air or forced upwards out of the scrum. The referee must
blow the whistle immediately
4	IMMEDIATE WHISTLE WHEN NO ADVANTAGE
The referee blows the whistle immediately once the referee decides an
advantage cannot be gained by the non-offending team.
5 MORE THAN ONE INFRINGEMENT
(a)	If there is more than one infringement by (he same team the referee applies the
advantage law.
(b)	If advantage is being played following an infringement by one team and (hen
the other team commit an infringement, the referee blows the whistle and
applies the sanctions associated with the first infringement.
36
LAW 9 - METHOD OF SCORING
irb
LAW 9- METHOD OF SCORING
A. SCORING POINTS
'*• Value
1 POINTS VALUES
Try. When an attacking player is first to ground the ball in the
opponents' in-goal, a try is scored. <5 pOjnIS
Penalty Try. If a player would probably have scored a try but for
foul play by an opponent, a penalty try is awarded between the
goal posts. 5 p^,,.
Conversion Goal. When a player scores a try it gives the
player’s team the right to attempt to score a goal by taking a kick
at goal; this also applies to a penally try. This kick is a
conversion kick, a conversion kick can be a place kick or a
drop kick. 2 points
Penalty Goal. A player scores a penalty goal by kicking a goal
from a penally kick. 3 points
Dropped Goal. A player scores a dropped goal by kicking a goal
from a drop kick in general play. The team awarded a free kick
cannot score a dropped goal until after the ball next becomes dead.
or after an opponent has played or touched it. or has tackled the
ball-carrier or a maul has been formed. This restriction applies
also to a scrum taken instead of a free kick. 3 points
Goal. A player scores a goal by kicking the ball over an
opponents’ cross bar and between the goal posts from the
field -of-play. by a place kick or drop kick.
A goal cannot be scored from a kick-off, a drop-out or a free kick.
2 KICK AT GOAL - SPECIAL CIRCUMSTANCES
(a) If. after the ball is kicked, it touches the ground or any team-mate of the kicker.
a goal cannot be scored.
(b)	If the ball has crossed the cross bar a goal is scored, even if the wind blows it
back into the field-of-play.
37
LAW 9 - METHOD OF SCORING
(0
(d)
If an opponent commits an offence as the kick at goal is being lqt.»
nevertheless the kick is successful, advantage is played and the scor/ , bui
stands.
If an opponent illegally (ouches the ball as the kick at goal is being i-
the kick is not successful, the referee may award a goal if the referee
that one would otherwise probably have been scored. c COns|derj
B CONVERSION KICK
DEFINITION
When a player scores a try. it gives the player’s team the right to try to score a goal k
taking a kick at goal, (his also applies to a penalty try. This kick is a conversion kick
A conversion kick can be a place kick or a drop kick.
1 TAKING A CONVERSION KICK
(a)
(b)
(O
(d)
(c)
(0
The kicker must use the ball that
was in play unless it is defective.
The kick is taken on a line
through the place where the try
was scored.
A placer is a team-mate who holds
the ball for the kicker to kick.
The kicker may place the ball
directly on the ground or on sand,
sawdust or a kicking tee approved
by the Union.
The klcker must take the kick
within one minute from the time
. kicker has indicated an
intention to kick.
Penally: The kick is disallowed if the kicker does not take the kick within tl*
time allowed.
The scoring team may choose not to take a conversion kick.
38
LAW 9 - METHODOF SCORING
■RB
2	THE KICKER'S TEAM
(a) All the kicker's team, except the placer, must be behind the ball when it is
kicked.
(b) Neither the kicker nor a placer must do anything to mislead their opponents
into charging too soon.
(c)	If the ball falls over before the kicker begins the approach to kick, the referee
permits the kicker to replace it without excessive delay. While the ball is
replaced, the opponents must stay behind their goal-line.
If the ball falls over after the kicker begins the approach to kick, the kicker may
then kick or attempt a dropped goal.
If the ball falls over and rolls away from the line through the place where the
try was scored, and the kicker then kicks the ball over the cross bar, a goal is
scored.
If the ball falls over and rolls into touch after the kicker begins the approach to
kick, the kick is disallowed.
Penalty: (a)-(c) If the kicker's team infringes, the kick is disallowed.
3	THE OPPOSING TEAM
(a) All the opposing team must be behind their goal line until the kicker begins the
approach to kick or starts to kick. When the kicker does this, they may charge
or jump so as to try to prevent a goal.
(b) When the ball falls over after the kicker began the approach to kick, the
opponents may continue to charge.
(c)	A defending team must not shout during a kick at goal.
Penalty: (a)-(c) If the opposing team infringes but the kick is successful, the
goal stands.
If the kick is unsuccessful, the kicker may take another kick and the opposing
team is not allowed to charge.
When another kick is allowed, the kicker may repeat all the preparations. The
kicker may change the type of kick.
39
LAW 10 -FOUL PLAY
■8jb
LAW 10 -FOUL PLAY
DEFINITION
Foul play is anything a person does within the playing enclosure that is again •
letter and spirit of the Laws of the Game it includes obstruction, unfair play re $ **
infringements, dangerous play and misconduct. ' uPea,fii
OBSTRUCTION
Charging or pushing. When a player
and an opponent are running for (he
ball, either player must not charge or
push the other except shoulder-to-
shoulder
Penalty: Penalty Kick
Running In front of a ball-carricr.
A player must not voluntarily move or
stand in front of a team-mate carrying
the ball.
(d)
Penalty: Penalty Kick
Blocking the tackler.
A player must not voluntarily move or
stand in a position that prevents an
opponent from tackling a ball-carrier.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
Blocking the ball.
A player must not voluntarily move
stand in a position that prevents
opponent from playing the ball.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
PK
OBSTRUCTION BY FLANKER
40
LAW 10 - FOUL PLAY
iRB
(0
(0
(g)
2
(a)
(b)
(c)
Ball-cnrricr running into tcam-matc at a set-piece.
A player carrying the ball after it has left a scrum, ruck, maul or line-out must
not run into team-mates in front of the player.
Penally: Penalty Kick
Flanker obstructing opposing scrum-half.
A flanker in a scrum must not prevent an opposing scrum-half from
advancing around the scrum.
PK
PK
Penalty: Penalty Kick
A player carrying the ball cannot be penalised for obstruction under any
circumstances.
UNFAIR PLAY
Intentionally offending. A player must not voluntarily infringe any Law of the
Game, or play unfairly
Penalty: Penalty Kick
A penalty try must be awarded if the offence prevents a try that would
probably otherwise have been scored.
Time-wasting. A player must not voluntarily waste time.
Penalty: Free Kick
FK
Throwing into touch etc. A player must not voluntarily knock-on or
throw the ball into touch, touch-in-goal, or over the dead-ball line.
Penally: Penalty Kick CFjO
A penalty try must be awarded if the offence prevents a try that would
probably otherwise have been scored.
For an offence in the player's In-goal, the mark for the kick is 5 metres from the
goal-line in line with the place of infringement.
41
PK
REPEATED INFRINGEMENTS
Airnndinc A player must not repeatedly infringe any |aw,
menus a master of fact. The question of whether or not ,he
player intended to infringe is irrelevant. ____
Penally: Penalty Kick
If necessary, the player is cautioned. If the player repeats the offence, the
player must be sent ofl.
Infringements. The problem of repeated infringements usually arises with the
scrum, line-out, off-side, ruck, maul or tackle laws A player penalised for
several infringements of one of these laws is cautioned. If the player repeats
the offence, the player is sent off.
Repeated infringements by the team. When different players of the same
team repeatedly commit (he same offence, the referee must decide whether or
not this amounts to repealed infringement. If it does, the referee gives a general
warning to the team and if they then repeat (he offence the referee sends off the
guilty playerfs).
Penalty: Penalty Kick
PK
A penalty try must be awarded if the offence prevents a try that would probably
otherwise have been scored.
Repeated infringements: standard applied by referee. When the referee
decides how many offences constitute repeated infringement, the referee must
always apply a strict standard in representative and senior matches. When a
player offends three times the referee must caution that player.
may ,his slandard *n junior or minor matches, where
ngements may be the result of ignorance of the laws or lack of skill.
dangerous play and misconduct
”opponen'wi,h“
Penally: Penalty Kick
PK.
LAW 10- FOUL PLAY
iRB
(b)
(0
(d)
(e)
Stamping or trampling. A player must not stamp or trample on an opponent.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
Kicking. A player must not kick an opponent
Penalty: Penalty Kick
Tripping. A player must not trip an opponent with the leg or foot.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
Dangerous tackling. A player must not tackle an opponent early, late
or dangerously.
PK
PK
PK
A player must not tackle (or -----
try to tackle) an opponent C.PKJ
above the line of the
shoulders. A tackle around the
opponent's neck or head is dangerous
play.
A "stiff arm tackle" is (KK)
dangerous play. A player
makes a stiff-arm tackle when using a
stiff arm to strike an opponent.
Playing a player without the (J’K~')
ball is dangerous play.
The referee decides whether or not a
tackle is dangerous. The referee takes into account the circumstances, such as
the apparent intentions of the tackler, or the nature of the tackle, or the
defenceless position of the player being tackled or knocked over. Any of these
may result in serious injury.
All forms of dangerous tackling must be punished severely. A player who
commits this type of foul must be sent off. Advantage may be played, but if the
offence prevents a probable try. a penalty try must be awarded.
In open play, a player must not tackle an opponent whose feet are off the
ground because that player is jumping to catch the ball.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
PK
43
LAW 10-FOUL PLAY___
(0
(g)
(h)
0)
■RUB
p, inn an opponent without the ball. Except in a scrum, ruck or maul, a
player must no^hold. or push, or charge into, or obstruct an opponent not
carrying the ball.
Penally: Penalty Kick
Dangerous charging. A player must not charge or knocks down an opponent
carrying the ball without trying to grasp that player.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
Tackling the jumper in the
air. A player must not tap or —-
pull the foot or feet of an opponent
jumping for the ball in a line-out.
Penalty: Penally Kick
Dangerous play in a scrum, ruck or
maul. The front row of a scrum must
not rush against its opponents.
Front-row players must not
voluntarily lift opponents off their
feet or force them upwards out of the
scrum.
Players must not voluntarily collapse
a scrum, ruck or maul.
PK
1’K
Players must not charge into a nick or maul without binding onto a team-mate
Penalty: Penalty Kick
inf?nSXi^ayCr.mUSl n°‘ rC,alia'c- Even if an opponent is^
opponent "" ’3 P °yer mus( 001 any,hinS ^at is dangerous to the
Penalty: Penalty Kick
against thespjrit°of<pf¥v|POrlS,nanSll'P’ A P,aycr must not do anything that is
S nst the spirit of good sponsmanship in the playing enclosure
Penalty: Penalty Kick
PK
(k)
LAW 10- FOUL PLAY
iRB
The player who commits an act of dangerous play or misconduct must cither
be sent off or else be cautioned that a send-off will result if the offences are
repeated or a similar offence committed, After a caution, if the player commits
the same or a similar offence, the player must be sent off A penalty try must be
awarded if the offence prevents a try that would probably otherwise have been
scored.
(I) Misconduct while the ball is out of play. A player, must not. while the ball is
out of play, commit any misconduct, or obstruct or in any way interfere with an
opponent.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
The penalty is the same as for sections 10.4 (a)-(k) except that the penalty kick
is awarded at the place where play would restart. If that place is on the touch-
line or within 15 metres of it. the mark for the penalty kick is on the 15-metre
line, in line with that place.
If play would restart at a 5-metre scrum, the mark for the penalty kick is at that
place at least 15 metres from the touch-line.
If play would restart with a drop-out. the non-offending team may choose to
take the penalty kick anywhere on the 22-mctre line.
If a penalty kick is awarded but the offending team is guilty of further
misconduct before the kick is taken, the referee cautions or orders off the guilty
player and advances the mark for the penalty kick 10 metres. This covers both
the original offence and the misconduct.
If a penalty kick is awarded to a team but a player of that team is guilty of
further misconduct before the kick is taken, the referee cautions or orders off
the guilty player, declares the kick disallowed, and awards a penalty kick to the
opposing team.
If an offence is committed outside the playing area while the ball is still in play,
and if that offence is not covered by any other part of this law. the penalty kick
is awarded on the 15-metrc line, in line with where the offence happened.
For an offence reported by a touch judge a penalty kick may be awarded where
the offence happened, or advantage may be played.
45
(m)
Late-charging the kicker. A player must not voluntarily charge or obstruct an
opponent who has just kicked the ball.
Penalty: The non-offending team may choose to take the penalty kick
either at the place of infringement or where the ball lands. Kj
Place of infringement. If the infringement happens in the kicker's in-goal th
mark for the penalty kick is 5 metres from the goal-line in line with the ac’tu |
place of infringement.
If the infringement happens in touch, the mark for the penalty kick is on the IS
metre line in line with the place of the actual infringement. 5 ’
If the infringement happens in touch-in-goal, the mark for the penalty kick
metres from the goal-line and 15 metres from the touch-line 7 IS 5
Where the ball lands. If the
ball lands in touch, the mark
for the optional penalty kick
is on the 15-metre line in line
with where it went into
touch. If the ball lands
within 15 metres of the
touch-line, the mark is on the
15-metre line opposite where
it landed.
If the ball lands in the in-
goal, tn touch-in-goal, or on
or over the dead-ball line, the
mark for the optional penalty
kick is 5 metres from the
goal-line, in line with the
place where the ball crossed
the goal-line and at least 15
metres from the touch-line.
If the ball hits a goal post or
cross bar. the optional penally kick is awarded where the ball lands on the
p round
46
1.AW 10 - FOUL PLAY
iRB
(n) Flying Wedge and Cavalry Charge. A team must not use the "Flying Wedge"
or the "Cavalry Charge". b b
Penalty: Penalty Kick at the place of the original infringement.
‘Flying Wedge’ The type of attack known as a ‘Flying Wedge' usually happens
near the goal-line, when the attacking team is awarded a penalty kick or free
kick.
The kicker tap-kicks the ball and starts the attack, either by driving towards the
goal-line or by passing to a team-mate who drives forward. Immediately, team-
mates bind on each side of the ball-carrier in a wedge formation. Often one or
more of these team-mates is in front of the ball-carrier. This, in itself, is illegal.
In any case, the ‘Flying Wedge' is potentially dangerous to players who try to
stop it. It is illegal.
Penalty: Penalty Kick at the place of the original infringement. (fPK
‘Cavalry Charge’. The type of attack known as a ‘Cavalry Charge’ usually
happens near the goal-line, when the attacking team is awarded a penalty kick
or free kick. Attacking players form a line across the Held some distance
behind the kicker. These attacking players are usually a metre or two apart. At
a signal from the kicker they charge forward. When they get near, the kicker
tap-kicks the ball and passes it to one of them. Until the ball is kicked, the
defending team must stay at least 10 metres from the mark or behind their goal-
line, if that is nearer. The ‘Cavalry Charge’ is potentially dangerous. It is
illegal.
Penalty: Penally Kick at the place of the original infringement.
5	YELLOW & RED CARDS
(a) When a player is cautioned and temporarily suspended the referee will show
that player a yellow card.
(b) When a player is sent off the referee will show that player a red card.
6	PLAYER SENT OFF
A player who is sent off takes no further part in the match.
47
LAW 11 ■ OFF-SIDE AND ON-SIDEINGENERALP^
■RB
LAW 11 - OFF-SIDE AND ON-SIDE IN GENERAL PLAY
DEFINITION
At the stan of a game all players are on-side. As the match progresses players may find
themselves in an off-side position. Such players are then liable to be penalised unless
they become on-side again.
In general play a player is off-side if the player is in front of a team-mate who is
carrying the ball or in front of a team-mate who last played the ball.
Off-side means that a player is temporarily out of the game, such players arc liable to
be penalised if they take pan in the game.
In general play, a player can be put on-side either by an action of a team-mate or by an
action of an opponent. However, (he off-side player cannot be put on-side if the off
side player interferes with play; or moves forward, towards the ball, or fails to move
10 metres away from the place where the ball lands
OFF-SIDE IN GENERAL PLAY
(a)
(b)
(0
A player who is in an off-side position is liable to penalty only if the player
does one of three things:
Interferes with play or,
Moves forward, towards the ball or
Fails to comply with the 10 metre law (Law 11.4).
A player who is in an off-side position is not automatically penalised
A player who receives an involuntary throw-forward is not off-side.
A player can be off-side in the in-goal.
Off-side and Interfering with play. A player who is off-side must not take
pan in the game This means the player must not play (he ball or obstruct an
opponent.
Off-side and moving forward. When a team-mate of an off-side player has
kicked ahead, the off-side player must not move towards opponents who are
waiting to play the ball, or move towards the place where the ball lands, until
the player has been put on-side.
48
I aw 1I - OFF-SIDE AND ON-SIDE IN GENERAL PLAY
_________
being put on-side by the action OF a TEAM-MATE
iRB
In general play, there are four ways by which an off-side player
side by actions of that player or of team-mates.
can be put on-
fa) Action by the player. When the off-side player runs behind the team-mate who
last kicked, touched or carried the ball, the player is put on-side
(b)
(0
(d)
3
(a)
PlAYERMADE ON-SIDE BY TEAM-MATE
		2		3.
		1®		I© @ / ©
				
PWIRRUKS				
BEHIND BAIL		wihbah		
CARRIER		RUNSAHEAD		tUNSAHEAD
Action by the ball-carrier. When a team-mate carrying the ball nms in front
of the off-side player, that player is
put on-side.
Action by the kicker or other on-
side player. When the kicker, or
team-mate who was level with or
behind the kicker when (or after)
the ball was kicked, runs in front of
the off-side player, the player is put
on-side.
When running forward, the team-
mate may be in touch or in touch-
in-goal, but that team-mate must
return to the playing area to put the
other player on-side.
BEING PUT ON-SIDE BY
OPPONENTS
In general play, there are three ways
by which an off-side player can be
put on-side by an action of the
opposing team. These three ways
do not apply to a player who is off-
side under the 10 metre law.
Runs 5 metres with ball. When an
opponent carrying the ball runs 5
metres, the off-side player is put on-
side.
49
LAW || .QFF-S1DEANDON^1PEJN GENERALPL^Y
■RB
(b)
(b)
(0
4
(a)
(0
(d)
(c)
Kicks or passes. When an opponent kicks or passes the ball, the off-side player
is put on-side.
Voluntarily touches ball. When an opponent voluntarily touches the ball but
does not catch it. the off-side player is put on-side.
OFF-SIDE UNDER THE I0-METRE LAW
When a team-mate of an
off-side player has kicked '
ahead, the off-side player is
considered to be taking pan in the
game if the player is in front of an
imaginary line across the field
which is ten metres from the
opponent wailing to play the ball or
from where the ball lands or may
land. The off-side player must
immediately move behind the
imaginary 10-mctre line While
moving away, the player must not
obstruct an opponent.
While moving away, the off-side
player cannot be put on-sidc by any action of the opposing team. However,
before the player has moved the full 10 metres, the player can be put on-side
by any on-sidc team-male who runs in front of the player.
When a player who is off-side under the 10-metre law charges an
opponent waiting to catch the ball, the referee blows the whistle at once
and the off-side player is penalised. Delay may prove dangerous to the
opponent. °
which hKf Wh° iSr°!?id® under ,he l0‘melre >aw P^ys the ball fpK
penSlisJd bCCn miS*fieldcd by an opponent, the off-side player is^“^
cross'brn^What'min"0' a"Td by ,he fact ,hat thc bal1 has-hi‘ * goal post ora
in front of the ^n^^
50
LAW 11 OFF-SIDE AND ON-SIDE IN GENERAL PLAY iRQ
(0
(g)
5
The 10-melre law does no apply when a player kicks rhe bah and an opponenr
charges down rhe kick and a ream-mate of rhe first player who was in from o
rhe imaginary 10-melre hoc across .he field .hen plays rhe ball. The opX°
was not 'waiting to play the ball' and the team-mate is on-sidc.
Penally: When a player is penalised for being off-side in general play, the
opposing team chooses either a penalty kick at the place of infringement or a
scrum at (he place where the offending team last played the ball If it was List
played in that team's m-goal, the scrum is formed 5 metres from the coal-line
in line with where it was played.
If more than one player is off-side and moving forward after a team-mate has
kicked ahead, the place of infringement is the place of the off-side player
closest to an opponent waiting for the ball, or closest to where the ball lands.
BEING PUT ON-SIDE UNDER THE 10-METRE LAW
(a) The off-side player must retire behind the 10-metre line across the field
otherwise the player is liable to be penalised,
(b) While retiring, the player can be put on-side before moving behind the
imaginary 10-metre line by any of the three actions of the player's teams listed
above in Section 2. However, the player cannot be put on-sidc by any action of
the opposing team.
6 ACCIDENTAL OFF-SIDE
(a) When an off-side player cannot avoid being touched by the ball or by a team-
mate carrying it, the player is accidentally off-side, if the player's team gains
no advantage from this, play continues If the player’s team gains an
advantage, a scrum is formed with the opposing team throwing in the ball.
(b) When a player hands the ball to a team-mate in front of the first player, the
receiver is off-side. Unless the receiver is considered to be voluntarily off-side
(in which case a penalty kick is awarded), the receiver is accidentally off-side
and a scrum is formed with (he opposing team throwing in the ball.
7	OFF-SIDE AFTER A KNOCK-ON
When a player knocks-on and an off-side team-mate next plays the ball, the off-
side player is liable to penalty if playing the ball prevented an opponent from
gaining an advantage.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
PK
51
LAW II ■ OFF-SIDEANDQN-SIDEINGENERALH^Y
iRB
OFF-SIDE AT SCRUM, RUCK, MAUL OR LINE-OUT
m n.ri rrnul or line out. a player is off-side if the player is in front
in .he relevant pans of those laws.
PUTTING ON-SIDE A PLAYER RETIRING DURING A RUCK, MAUL,
SCRUM OR LINE-OUT
When a nick, maul, scrum or line-out forms, a player who is off-side and
retiring as required by law remains off-side even when the opposing team w’
possession and the ruck, maul, scrum or line-out has ended lns
In this situation, no action of (he off-side player or team-mates can put the off-
side player on-side The off-side player can be put on-side only by the action
of the opposing team. There are two such actions:
Opponent runs 5 metres with ball. When an opponent carrying the ball has
run 5 metres, the off-side player is put on-side. An off-side player is not put
on-side when an opponent passes the ball. Even if the opponents pass the ball
several times, their action does not put the off-side player on-side.
Opponent kicks. When an opponent kicks the ball, the off-side player is put
on-side.
10 LOITERING
A player who remains in an off-side position is loitering. A loiterer who
prevents the opposing team from playing the ball as they wish is taking pan in
the game, and is penalised. The referee makes sure that the loiterer does not
benefit from being put on-side by the opposing team's action.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
PK
52
uW |2 -KNOCK-ON OR THROW-FORWARD
iRB
LAW 12 - KNOCK-ON OR THROW-FORWARD
'DEFINITION - KNOCK-ON
A knock-on occurs when a player loses possession of the ball and it goes forward, or
when a player hits the ball forward with the hand or arm. or when the ball hits the hand
or arm and goes forward, and the ball touches the ground or another player before the
original player can catch it.
‘Forward’ means towards the opposing team’s dead-ball line
exception
Charge down. If the ball goes forward as in a knock-on while a player charges down
an opponent's kick, but the player docs not try to catch the ball, then play continues.
DEFINITION - THROW-FORWARD
A throw-forward occurs when a player throws or passes the ball forward. ’Forward'
means towards the opposing team's dead-ball line.
exception
Bounce forward. If the ball is not thrown forward but it hits a player or the ground
and bounces forward, this is not a throw-forward.
53
LAW 12 - KNOCK-ON OR TIIROW^^B
iRB
, the outcome ofa knock-on ok throw-forward
(,) Involuntary knock-on or tltron-fonvard. A scrum is awarded al the place of
infringement.
(b) Involuntary knock-on or throw-ronvard at a line-out. A scrum is awarded
15 metres from the touch-line.
(c} Knock-on or throw-forward into the in-goal. If an attacking player knocks-
on or throws-forward in (he field-of-play and the ball goes into the opponents'
in-goal and it is made dead there, a scrum is awarded where the knock-on or
throw-forward happened.
(d)	Knock-on or throw-forward inside the in-goal. If a player of either team
knocks-on or throws-forward inside the in-goal, a 5-metre scrum is awarded in
line with (he place of infringement not doser than 5 metres from the touch-line.
(e)	Voluntary knock-on or throw-forward. A player must not voluntarily knock-
on or throw-forward.
Penalty: Penalty kick. A penalty try must be awarded if the offence
prevents a try that would probably otherwise have been scored.
(f)	If the ball goes forward as in a knock-on while a player attempts to catch the
ball and that player catches the ball before it has touched the ground or another
player, play continues.
54
during the match - in the field of play iRB
iRB
IHTTRNAT1ONAL RUGBY BOARD
DURING THE MATCH
In the Field-of-Play
Law 13	Kick-off and Restart Kicks
Law 14	Ball on the Ground: No Tackle
Law 15	Tackle: Ball-carrier Brought to Ground
Law 16	Ruck
Law 17	Maul
Law 18	Mark
55
DURING THE MATCH - IN THE FIELD OF PLAY
igB
IN THE FTELD-OFPLAY
There are many activities in the field-ofplay during a match: the kick-off (Ln
players tackling the ball-earners (Law 15), players going into contact with opno • •
players and players from their own team to form a maul (Law 17), or playersSl,IOn
ground to recover a ball (Law 14). After a tackle, players from both teams m*’10
on their feet and attempt to ruck the ball (Law 16) to maintain continuity. If (h
kicked, a defender within that player's 22-metre area may attempt to rmi- C 15
(Law IS). nKC a mari;
56
LAW 13 - KICK OFF AND RESTART KICKS
iRB
LAW 13 - KICK-OFF AND RESTART KICKS
definition
The kick-off represents the start of the match, or the restart of a match after half-time
or after a score.
1	WHERE THE KICK-OFF IS TAKEN
The kick-off is taken at the centre of the half-way line If the ball is kicked
from the wrong place it is kicked-off again.
2	HOW A KICK-OFF IS TAKEN
(a)	At the start of the match and after half-time, a team kicks-off with a place kick.
(b)	The kickcr may place the ball on sand, sawdust or a kicking tec approved by
the Union.
(c)	After a score a team kicks-off with a drop kick which must be taken at or
behind the centre of the half-way line.
(d)	If the ball is kickcd-off by the wrong type of kick, it is kicked-off again.
3	WHO TAKES THE KICK-OFF
(a)	At the start of the game, the team whose captain elected to take the kick after
winning the toss kicks-off or the opposing team if the winning captain elected
to choose end.
(b)	After the half-time interval, the opponents of the team who kicked-off at the
start of the game kick-off.
(c)	After a score the opponents of the team who scored kick-off.
4	POSITION OF THE KICKER'S TEAM AT A KICK-OFF
All the kicker's team, except the placer, must be behind the ball when it is
kicked. If they arc not. a scrum is formed at the centre. Their opponents thro*
in the ball.
57
LAW 13 • KICK-OFF AND REST\RTKICKS
POSITION OF THE
OPPOSING TEAM AT A
KICKOFF
All (he opposing team must stand
on or behind the 10-metre line. If
they are in front of that line or if
they charge before the ball is
kicked, it is kickcd-off again.
KICK OFF OF 10 METRES
If the ball reaches the opponents'
10-mctre line or reaches the 10-
metre line and is blown back, play
goes on.
KICK OFF OF UNDER 10
METRES BUT PLAYED BY AN
OPPONENT
	KICKOFF r	
£ $	1 c*?Ea‘‘
If the ball does not reach the opponent's 10-metre line but is first played by an
opponent, play goes on.
KICK OFF OF UNDER 10 METRES AND NOT PLAYED BY AN
OPPONENT
If the ball does not reach the opponent's 10-metre line the opposing team has
two choices:
To have the ball kicked-off again, or
To have a scrum at the centre. They throw in the ball.
9 BALL GOES DIRECTLY INTO TOUCH
?USt ,?nd ln ,hc ^^’Of-play. If it is kicked directly into touch the
opposing team has three choices:
To have the ball kicked off again, or
Io	“ "* ccmre md ,ht> lh' or
58
I A\y 13 - KICK-OFF AND RESTART KICKS
■RB
If they accept the kick, the line-out is on the half-way line If the ball blown
behind .he half-way line and goes directly into touchf.Mn^u. “ he S"
where it went into touch, 1 dCC
10 BALL GOES INTO THE IN-GOAL
(a)	If the ball is kicked into the in-goal without having touched or been touched bv
a player, the opposing team has three choices:
To ground the ball, or
To make it dead, or
To play on.
(b)	If the opposing team grounds the ball, or if they make it dead.
or if the ball becomes dead by going into touch-in-goal or on or over the dead-
ball line, they have two choices;
To have a scrum formed at the centre, and they throw in the ball, or
To have (he other team kick-off again.
(c)	If they opt to ground the ball or make it dead, they must do so without delay.
Any other action with the ball by a defending player means the player has
elected to play on.
Il	DROP-OUT
DEFINITION
A drop-out is used to restart play after an attacking player has put or taken the ball into
the in-goal, without infringement, and a defending player has made the ball dead (here
or it has gone into touch-in-goal or on or over the dead-ball line.
A drop-out is a drop kick taken by the defending team. The drop-out may be taken
anywhere on or behind the 22 metre line. 
12	DELAY IN DROP-OUT
The drop-out must be taken without delay.
Penalty: Free kick on the 22-metre line
FK
59
LAW 13 - KICK-OFF AND RESTART KICKS---------------------
13	DROP-OUT INCORRECTLY TAKEN If the ball is kicked by (he wrong type of kick, or from (he wrong place, it must be dropped-out again.
14	DROP-OUT BALL MUST CROSS THE LINE
(a)	If the ball does not cross (he 22-metre line, the opposing team has two choices: To have another drop-out, or To have a scrum at the centre of the 22-metre line. They throw in the ball.
(b)	If the ball crosses (he 22-metre line but is blown back, play continues.
(c)	If the ball does not cross the 22-metre line, advantage may apply. An opponent who plays the ball can score a try.
15	BALL GOES DIRECTLY INTO TOUCH The ball must land in the ficld-of-play. If it is kicked directly into touch, the opposing team has three choices: To have another drop-out. or
	To have a scrum at the centre of the 22-metre line, and they throw in the ball or To accept the kick. If they accept the kick, the throw-in is where the ball went into touch.
16	THE KICKER'S TEAM
(a)	£ fo^dChe^^l?Ur £^hi"d ,hC-bal1 When il ,s kicked ,f a scrum ball u 0 kc 22-metre line. 1 he opposing team throws in the
(b)	arc'retiring ‘hat p,.aycrs of ,lle kickcr's tcam who not stop retiring until thevhn? bal,‘thcy wil1 no‘ Pe,,aliscd- They must They must n K p n , m lhL °"'side by an ac,ion of a way ,ake Pan ,n the game unnl they have been made on-side in this in the ball. * <bC ccn,re ’he 22-metre line. The opposing team throws
60
LAW 13 - KICK-OFF AND RESTART KICKS
■RB
17
THE OPPOSING TEAM
The opposing team must not
charge over the 22-metre line
before the ball is kicked. If they
do, another drop-out is taken.
If an opponent is on the wrong
side of (he 22-metre line and
delays or obstructs the drop-out,
the player is guilty of
misconduct.
Penalty: Penalty kick
on the 22-metre line v
61
LAW |4 ■ BALLONTHBGROUNDJWJ^g.
iRB
LAW 14 • BALLON THE GROUND - NO TACKLE
definition
This situation occurs when the ball is available on the ground and a player goes to
“oX'He tall, exccp. immedW, after a serum or a ruck.
h also occurs when a player is on the ground in possession of the ball and has not been
tackled.
The came is to be played by players who are on their feet. A player must not make the
ball unplayable by falling down. Unplayable means (hat (he ball is not immediately
available to either team so that play may continue
A player who makes the ball unplayable, or who obstructs (he opposing team by falling
down, is negating the purpose and spirit of the game and must be penalised.
A player who is not tackled, but who goes to ground while holding the ball, or a player
who goes to ground and gathers the ball, must act immediately.
1	PLAYER ON THE GROUND
The player must immediately do one of three things:
Get up with the ball, or
Pass the ball, or
Release the ball.
2
A player who passes or releases the ball must also get up or move away from
it at once. Advantage is played only if it happens immediately.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
WHAT THE PLAYER MUST NOT DO
Lying on or around the ball. A z'mZx
player must not lie on or near the
ball to prevent opponents getting possession
nf ;■
LYING NCARIHt Mil
62
IAW 14- BALL ON THE GROUND-NO TACKLE
iRB
Falling over the player on the ground with the ball. A player must
not voluntarily fall on or over a player with the ball who is lying on the
ground.
(c) Falling over players lying on the ground near the ball. A player
must not voluntarily fall on or over players lying on the ground with the
ball between them or near them.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
DEFINITION
Near is within 1 metre.
63
uw 15 . TACKLE: BALL-CARRIER BROUGHT TOTHE GROUND igg
LAW 15 ■ TACKLE: BALL-CARRIER BROUCIITTO THE GROUND
DEFINITION
A lackle occur when a ball-carrier in a standing position is simultaneously held b,
one or more opponents and is brought to Ute ground and/or Ute ball touches the ground.
1 TACKLE - WHERE
A tackle can only take place in the field-of-play.
2	WHEN TACKLE CANNOT TAKE PLACE
When the ball-carrier is held by one opponent and a team-mate binds on to that
ball-carrier, a maul has been formed and a tackle cannot take place.
3	BROUGHTTO THE GROUND DEFINED
(a)	If the ball-carrier has one knee or both knees on the ground, that playcr has
been ‘brought to ground’.
(b)	If the ball-carrier is sitting on the ground, or on top of another player on the
ground the ball carrier has been 'brought to ground’.
4	LIFTING A BALL CARRIER FROM THE GROUND
pla^conrinuMWh° thc ground an opponent is not tackled and
64
LAW 15 • TACKLE. BALL CARRIER BROUGHT TO THE GROUND BRB
5	THE TACKLED PLAYER
(a)	A tackled player must try to make the ball available immediately so
that play can continue.
(b)
A tackled player must immediately pass the ball or release it. That <PK~
player must also get up or move away from it at once.
(c)	A tackled player may release the ball by putting it on the ground in any (Jk
direction, provided this is done immediately. w --------------------------
A tackled player may release the ball by pushing it along the ground in <J’K~
any direction except forward, provided this is done immediately. '
If a tackled player’s momentum carries the player into the In-goal, the CPK
player can score a try or make a touch down.
(f) If players are tackled near to the goal-line, these players may Zpi7'\
immediately reach out and ground the ball on or over the goal-line to '
score a try or make a touch down.
Penalty: Penally Kick
(g) The tackled player must not place the ball in-touch. The tackled player (j*K^)
must not push the ball into touch.
Penalty: Penalty Kick on the 15 metre line.
6	THE TACKLER (PK>
(a)	When a player tackles an opponent and they both go to ground, the —
tackler must immediately release the tackled player.
(b)	The tackler must immediately get up or move away from the tackled z-pTTx
player and from the ball at once. z*
(c)	The tackler must get up before playing the ball.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
65
I-AW 15 ■ TACKLE: BALL-CARR.BR BROUGHTTOTHEGROUND iRB
7
(a)
(b)
(0
AFTER A TACKLE
After a tackle, all other
players must be on their
feet when they play the ball.
Players are on their feet if no other
pan of their body is supported by
the ground or players on the
ground.
JACKIE. HEXT PLAYERS MUST
BE OH THEIR FEE]
After a tackle, any player lying on (he ground must not prevent an
opponent from getting possession of the ball.
After a tackle, any player on the ground must not tackle an opponent (Jb?
or try to tackle an opponent.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
Exception: Ball goes into the in-goal. After a tackle near the goal-line, if the
ball has been released and has gone into the in-goal any player, including a
player on the ground, may ground the ball
S	FORBIDDEN PRACTICES
(a) No player may prevent the tackled player from passing the ball. (Vk)
(b)	No player may prevent the tackled player from releasing the ball and (JR)
getting up or moving away from it.
(c)	No player may pull the ball from the tackled player before the tackled CPK)
player has released it. y
Penalty: Penalty Kick
MrVL?l‘T °PP?ncnt may legally pull the ball from the hands or arms of a
S f ayCf Wh°,S reaching oul 10 ?round ,hc bal1 on or over the goal-line.
but the opponent must not kick the ball.
(d) No player may fall on or over the tackled player. (JPK)
tackle wiXtall 'h'
66
LAW 15 - TACKLE BALL-CARRIER BROUGHT TO THE GROUND "RB
Players on their feel must not charge or obstruct an opponent who is
not near the ball. '
Penalty: Penalty Kick
Danger: Failure to pass or release. Danger may arise if a tackled ('f’K')
player fails to release the ball or move away from it immediately, or if K'—-
that player is prevented from so doing. If cither of these happens the referee
awards a penalty kick immediately.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
DOUBT ABOUT FAILURE TO COMPLY
If the ball becomes unplayable at a tackle and there is doubt about which player
did not conform to law, the referee orders a scrum immediately with the throw-
in by the team that was moving forward prior to (he stoppage or, if no team was
moving forward, by the attacking team.
67
LAW 16 - RUCK
■RB
LAW 16 - RUCK
DEFINITIONS
A ruck is a phase of play where one or more players from each team, who arc on their
feet, in physical contact, close around the ball on the ground. Open play has ended
Rucking. Players are rucking when they are in a ruck and using their feet to try to win
or keep possession of the ball, without being guilty of foul play.
I FORMING A RUCK
Where A ruck can take place only in
the field-of-play.
How Players are on their feet. At
least one player must be in physical
contact with an opponent.
SUMMARY
Ruck: Ball on the ground; needs at least two players on their feet, one from
each team.
2 JOINING A RUCK
(a)	All players forming, joining or taking pan in a ruck must have (heir
heads and shoulders no lower than their hips.
Penalty: Free Kick
(b)
(c)
W)
m"S' b,nd °nl°lhe mck "’i,h al l«*t one arm fpK
around the body of a team-mate, using the whole arm.
WndiX3 hMd ™ °"°"Kr playcr in ,he n,ck docs no> consdtuie (PK
All players foX.. joining or |ating pm a —
Penalty: Penalty Kick
68
LAW 16 - RUCK
iRB
3	RUCKING
(a)	Players in a ruck must endeavour to stay on their feet.
(b)	A player must not voluntarily fall or kneel in a ruck. This is dangerous <PK~ play. '
(0	A player must not voluntarily collapse a ruck. This is dangerous play. ('pk'
(d)	A player must not jump on top of a ruck. CPK* Penalty: Penally Kick
(0	Players must have their heads and shoulders no lower than their hips. —■> CM Penalty: Free Kick
(0	A player rucking for the ball must not ruck players on the ground. A playcr rucking for the ball tries to step over players on the ground and must not voluntarily step on them. A player rucking must do so near''*--—- the ball.
Penalty: Penalty Kick for dangerous play
4	OTHER RUCK OFFENCES
(a)	Players must not return the ball into a ruck. Penalty: Free Kick
(b)	Players must not handle the ball in a ruck. (J’K>
(c)	Players must not pick up (he ball in a ruck with their legs.
(d)	Players on the ground in or near the ruck must try to move away from 	 the ball. These players must not interfere with (he ball in (he ruck or as it comes out of the ruck.
(e)	A player must not fall on or over a ball as it is coming out of a ruck. QPJS- Penalty: Penalty Kick
(0	A player must not take any action to make the opponents think that the Qj? ball is out of the ruck while it is still in the ruck.
Penalty: Free Kick
69
LAW 16 - RUCK
■RB
OFF-SIDE AT THE RUCK
The off-side line. There are (wo off-side lines parallel to (he goal-lines, one
for each team. Each off-side line runs through the hindmost foot of the
hindmost player in the ruck.
(b)
Players must either join a ruck, or retire behind the off-side line
immediately. If a player loiters at the side of a ruck, the player is off-
(PK)
side.
(c)
Players joining the ruck. All players joining a ruck must do so from
behind the foot of the hindmost team-mate in the ruck A player may
PK
join alongside this hindmost player. If the player joins the ruck from the
opponents' side, or in front of the hindmost team-mate, the player is off-side.
Penalty: Penalty Kick on the offending team’s off-side line
(d)
Players not joining the ruck. If a player is in front of the off-side line
and does not join the ruck, the player must retire behind the off-side line
at once. If a player who is behind the off-side line oversteps it and does not
join the nick the player is off-side.
Penalty: Penalty Kick on the
offending team's off-side line
(0
Players leaving or
rejoining the ruck. If a
player leaves a nick that player
must immediately retire behind
the off-side line otherwise the
player is off-side. Once the player
is on-side, the player may rejoin
the ruck. If the player rejoins in
front of the hindmost team-mate in
the nick, the player is off-side. The
player may rejoin the ruck
alongside the hindmost team-
mate.
Penalty: Penalty Kick on the
offending team’s off-side line
70
LAW 16 - RUCK
iRB
6 SUCCESSFUL END TO A RUCK
A ruck ends successfully when the ball leaves the ruck, or when the ball is on
or over the goal-line.
7 UNSUCCESSFUL END TO A RUCK
(a)	A ruck ends unsuccessfully when the ball becomes unplayable and a scrum is
ordered.
The team that was moving forward immediately before the ball became
unplayable in the ruck throws in the ball.
If neither team was moving forward, or if the referee cannot decide which team
was moving forward before the ball became unplayable in the ruck, the team
that was moving forward before the ruck began throws in the ball.
If neither team was moving forward, then the attacking team throws in the ball.
(b)	Before the referee blows the whistle for a scrum, the referee allows a
reasonable amount of time for the ball to emerge, especially if either team is
moving forward. If (he ruck stops moving, or if the referee decides that the ball
will probably not emerge within a reasonable time, the referee must order a
scrum.
71
LAW 17 - MAUL
LAW 17 - MAUL
■RB
DEFINITION
A maul occurs when a player carrying the ball is held by one or more opponents, and
one or more of the ball-earner's team-mates bind on the ball-carrier. All the players
involved are on their feel and moving towards a goal-line. Open play has ended.
2
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
Players joining a maul must have their heads and shoulders no lower
than their hips.
Penalty: Free Kick
A player must be caught in or bound to the maul and not just alongside
binding 3 hand °n an°,hCr playCr in ,he maul does not consl*,u,c (PK
Penalty: Penalty Kick
Keeping players on their feel. Players in a maul must endeavour to
stay on their feet. The ball carrier in a maul may go to ground
providing the ball is available immediately and play continues.
72
LAW 17- MAUL
■RB
(e) A player must not voluntarily collapse a maul. This is dangerous play. <pk>
(f) A player must not jump on top of a maul. CPK")
Penalty: Penalty Kick
3 OTHER MAUL OFFENCES
(a)	A player must not try to drag an opponent out of a maul,
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(b)	A player must not take any action to nuke the opposing team think that
the ball is out of the maul while it is still in the maul. K------------z
Penally: Free Kick
4 OFF-SIDE AT THE MAUL
(a)	The off-side line. There are two off-side lines parallel to the goal-lines, one
for each team. Each off-side line runs through the hindmost foot of the
hindmost player in the maul.
(b)	A player must either join a maul, or retire behind the off-side line
immediately. If a player loiters at the side of a maul, the player is off- '
side.
Penalty: Penalty Kick on the offending team's off-side line
(c)	Players joining the maul. Players joining a maul must do so from <pK'')
behind the foot of the hindmost team-mate in the maul. The player may
join alongside this player. If the player joins the maul from the opponents' side.
or in front of the hindmost team-mate, the player is off-side.
Penalty: Penalty Kick on (he offending team's off-side line
(d)	Players not joining the maul. All players in front of the off-side line
and who do not join the maul, must retire behind the off-side line at
once. A player who docs not do so, is off-side. If any player who is behind the
off-side line oversteps it and docs not join the maul, the player is off-side.
Penalty: Penalty Kick on the offending team's off-side line
73
iRB
LAW 17 - MAUL
(0
Players leaving or (5k)
rejoining the
maul. Players who leave a
maul must immediately
retire behind the oft-side
line, otherwise, they are off-
side Ifthc player rejoins the
maul in front of the
hindmost team-mate in the
maul, they are off-side. The
player may rejoin the maul
alongside the hindmost
team-mate.
jwck&maul off-s/df
Penalty: Penalty Kick on
the offending team's off-
side line.
5 SUCCESSFUL END TO A MAUL
A maul ends successfully when the ball leaves the maul or a player with the ball
leaves the maul. The maul ends when the ball is on or over the goal-line.
6 UNSUCCESSFUL END TO A MAUL
(a) A maul ends unsuccessfully if the ball in the maul remains stationary or stops
moving forward and a scrum is ordered.
Qj) A maul ends unsuccessfully if the ball becomes unplayable or collapses (not as
a result of foul play) and a scrum is ordered
(c)	Scrum following maul. The ball is thrown in by the team not in possession
when the maul began. If the referee cannot decide which team had possession,
the team moving forward before the maul stopped moving throws in the ball.
If neither team was moving forward, the attacking team throws in the ball
(d)	When a maul remains stationary or stops moving forward but the ball is being
moved and the referee can see it, a reasonable time is allowed for the ball to
emerge. If it does not emerge within a reasonable time a scrum is ordered.
(e)	Once a maul has stopped moving forward it must not start moving again A
scrum is ordered. “ ‘
74
LAW 17 - MAUL
iRB
When the ball in a maul becomes unplayable, the referee does not allow
prolonged wrestling for it. A scrum is ordered.
If the ball-carrier in a maul goes to ground, including being on one or both
knees or sitting, the referee orders a scrum unless the ball is immediately
available.
Scrum after a maul when catcher is held. If a player catches the ball direct
from an opponent's kick, except from a kick-off or a drop-out, and the player is
immediately held by an opponent, a maul may form. Then if the maul remains
stationary, stops moving forward, or if the ball becomes unplayable, and a
scrum is ordered, the team of the ball catcher throws in the ball.
‘Direct from an opponent's kick' means the ball did not touch another player or
the ground before the player caught it
If a maul moves into the player's in-goal, where the ball is touched down or
becomes unplayable, a 5-mctre scrum is formed. The attacking team throws in
the ball.
75
LAW IS - MARK
■RB
LAW IS - MARK
AFTER A MARK
The referee immediately blows the whistle and awards a kick to the player who
made the mark.
2	KICK AWARDED
The kick is awarded at the place of the mark
3	KICK - WHERE
The kick is taken at or behind the mark on a line through the mark.
4	WHO KICKS
The kick is taken by the player who made the mark. If that player cannot take
the kick within one minute, a scrum is formed at the place of the mark with (he
ball thrown in by the player's team. If the mark is in the in-goal, the scrum is
5	metres from the goal-line, on a line through the mark
76
LAW 18-MARK
■rb
5	HOW THE KICK IS TAKEN
The provisions of Law 21 - Free Kicks - apply to a kick awarded after a mark.
6	SCRUM ALTERNATIVE
(a)	The team of the player who made the mark may choose to take a scrum
(b)	Where the scrum is. If the mark is in the field-of-play. the scrum is at the
place of the mark, but at least 5 metres from the touch-line. If the mark is in-
goal, the scrum is 5 metres from the goal-line on a line through the mark, and
at least 5 metres from the touch-line.
(c)	Who throws in. The team of the player who made the mark throws the ball in.
7	PENALTY KICK AWARDED
(a) An opponent, whether on-side or off-side, must not charge a player
who has made a mark after the referee has blown the whistle. '
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(b) Where penalty kick is taken. If the infringing player is on-side, the penalty
kick is taken at the place of the infringement. If the infringing player is off-side.
the penalty kick is taken at the place of the off-side line (Law 11 Off-side and
On-side in General Play.)
(c)	The penally kick. Any player from the non-offending team may take the
penalty kick.
77
DURING THE MATCI1 - RESTARTS
■RB
iRB
IHTfRNATlONAL RUGBY BOARD
DURING THE MATCH
RESTARTS
Law 19 Touch, Line-out and Line-out Off-side
Law 20 Scrum
Law 21 Penalty and Free Kicks
78
DURING THE MATCH - RESTARTS iRB
RESTARTING THE GAME AFTER THE BALL HAS BEEN MADE DEAD
There are four methods of restarting the game after the ball has been made dead these
are detailed in the next three laws. The line-out (Law 19) is used to restart the’came
after the ball has gone into touch. The scrum (Law 20) is used to restart the game after
some infringements whilst penalty kicks and free kicks (Law 21) are used to restart the
game after other infringements.
x'
79
LAW 19 - TOUCH, LINE-OUT AND LINE-OUT OFF-SIDE
■RB
L,\w 19 - TOUCH, LINE-OUT AND LINE-OUT OFF-SIDE
DEFINITIONS
•Kicked directly into touch1 means that the ball was kicked into touch without landing
on the playing area, and without touching a player or the referee.
•The 22’ is the area between the goal-line and the 22-mctre line, including the 22-mctrc
line but excluding (he goal-line.
The line-of-touch is an imaginary line in the field-of-play at right angles to the touch-
line through the place where the ball is thrown in.
The ball is in touch when it is not being carried by a player and it touches the touch-
line or anything or anyone on or beyond the touch-line
The ball is in touch when a player is carrying it and the ball-carrier (or the ball) touches
the touch-line or the ground beyond the touch-line.
The place where the ball-carrier (or the ball) touched or crossed the touch-line is where
it went into touch.
The ball is in-touch if a player catches the ball and
that player has a foot on the touch-line or the
ground beyond the touch-line.
If a player has one foot in the Field of play and one
foot in touch and holds the ball, the ball is in
touch.
If the ball crosses the touch-line or touch-in-goal
line, and is caught by a player who has both feet
in the playing area, (he ball is not in touch or
touch-in-goal. Such a player may knock the ball
into the playing area. If a player jumps and
catches the ball, both feet must land in the playing
area otherwise the ball is in touch or touch-in-
goal.
A player in touch may kick or knock the ball, but
not hold it. provided it has not crossed the plane of
(he touch-line. The plane of die touch-line is (he
vertical space rising immediately above the touch-
line.
NOT IN TOUCH
80
! A\V 19 -TOUCH. LINE-OUT AND LINE-OUT OFF-SIDE
iRB
throw-in
NO GAIN IN GROUND
(3) Outside a team’s 22, a team member kicks directly into touch. Except for
a penalty kick, when a player anywhere in the playing area who is outside the
22 kicks directly into touch, there is no gain in ground. The throw-in is taken
either at the place opposite where the player kicked the ball, or at the place
where it went into touch, whichever is nearer that player’s goal-line.
(b)	Player takes ball into that team’s 22. When a defending player gets the ball
outside the 22, takes or puts it inside the 22. and then kicks directly into touch,
there is no gain in ground.
(0
(d)
(e)
(0
GAIN IN GROUND
Player inside that team’s 22.
When a defending player gets the
ball inside the 22, or that player's
in-goal and kicks to touch, the
throw-in is where the ball went
into touch.
Kicks indirectly into touch.
When a player anywhere in (he
playing area kicks indirectly into
touch, so that the ball first
bounces in the field-of-play. the
throw-in is taken where the ball
went into touch.
Penalty kick. When a player
kicks to touch from a penalty kick
anywhere in the playing area, the
throw-in is taken where the ball
went into touch.
FREE KICK
Outside the kicker’s 22, no gain in ground. When a free kick i°u*side
the 22 goes directly into touch, the throw-in is in line with where th^ba I as
kicked, or where it went into touch, whichever is nearer the Meker's goal-hne.
81
LAW 19 • TOUCH. LINE-OUT AND LINE-OUT OFF-SIDE-----------
Inside the kicker's 22 or In-goal, gain in ground. When a free kick is
S Scd in the 22 or in-goal and the kick goes directly into touch, the throw-in
is where the ball went into touch.
2 QUICK THROW-IN
(a)	A player may take a quick throw-in
without waiting fora line-out to form.
(b)	For a quick throw-in, the player may
be anywhere outside the Field of play
between the place where the ball went
into touch and the player's goal-line.
(c)	A player must not take a quick throw-
in after the line-out has formed. If the
player does, the quick throw-in is
disallowed. The same team throws in
at the line-out.
(d)	For a quick throw-in, the player must
use the ball that went into touch. If,
after it went to touch and was made
dead, another ball is used, or if
another person has touched the ball
apart from the player throwing it in, then the quick throw-in is disallowed. The
same team throws in at the line-out.
(c)	At a quick throw-in, if the player does not throw the ball in straight so that it
travels at least 5 metres along the line-of-touch before it touches (he ground or
another player, or if the player steps into the field-of-play when the ball is
thrown, then the quick throw-in is disallowed. The opposing team chooses to
throw in at either a line-out where the quick throw-in was attempted, or a scrum
on the 15-metre line at that place. If they too throw in the ball incorrectly at
the line-out, a scrum is formed on the 15-metre line. The team that first threw
in the ball throws in the ball at the scrum.
(f) At a quick throw-in, a player may come to the line-of-touch and leave without
being penalised.
82
LAW 19 - TOUCH, LINE-OUT AND LINE-OUT OFF-SIDE
iRB
(g)
At a quick throw-in, a player must not prevent the ball beine thrown in
5 metres,
Penalty: Free Kick on 15 metre line
(h) If a P’ayer carrying the ball is forced into touch, that player must <pj<
release the ball to an opposition player so that there can be a quickk'
throw-in.
Penalty: Penalty Kick on 15-metre line
3 OTHER THROW-INS
On all other occasions, the throw-in is taken where the ball went into touch.
5
WHO THROWS-IN
The throw-in is taken by an opponent
of the player who last held or touched
the ball before it went into touch,
When there is doubt, (he attacking
team takes the throw-in.
Exception
When a team takes a penalty kick, and
the ball is kicked into touch, the throw-
in is taken by a player of the team that
took the penalty kick This applies
whether the ball was kicked directly or
indirectly to touch.
HOW THE THROW-IN IS TAKEN
The player taking the throw-in must
stand at the correct place. The player
must not step into the field-of-play when the ball is thrown. The ball must be
thrown straight, so that it travels at least 5 metres along the hne-of-touch before
it first touches the ground or touches or is touched by a player.
83
LAW 19 - TOUCH, LINE-OUT AND LINE-OUT OFF-SIDE
■RB
6
(a)
(b)
(c)
INCORRECT THROW-IN
If the throw-in at a line-out is
incorrect, the opposing team has the
choice of throwing in at a line-out or
a scrum on the 15-metre line. If they
choose the throw-in to (he line-out
and it is again incorrect, a scrum is
formed. The team that took the first
throw-in throws in the ball.
The throw-in at the line-out ZpjTX
must be taken without delay
and without pretending to throw.
Penalty: Free Kick on the 15-metre
line
A player must not voluntarily /''pjz'x
or repeatedly throw the ball in
not straight.
HCWJHl JtfOW IN Ttft;
a mi it RtrtiHHnnmft’mrsHnti n
mtKMWM CTX-.J atax^ifanwmniu wt
Penalty: Penalty Kick on the 15-metre line
84
IJ^V 19 - TOUCH. LINE-OUT AND LINE-OUT OFF-SIDE iRB
line-out
■definitions " “
The purpose of (he line-out is to restart play, quickly, safely and fairly, after the ball has
gone into touch, with a throw-in between two lines of players.
Line-out players. Line-out players are (he players who form (he two lines that make
a line-out.
Receiver. The receiver is the player in position to catch the ball when line-out players
pass or knock the ball back from the line-out. Any player may be the receiver but each
team may have only one receiver at a line-out.
Players Inking part in the line-out known as participating players. Players taking
part in the line-out are the player who throws-in and an immediate opponent, the two
players wailing to receive the ball from the line-out and the line-out players.
All other players. All other players who are not taking part in the line-out must be at
least 10 metres behind (he line-of-touch. on or behind their goal-line if that is nearer.
until the line-out ends.
15-metre line. The 15 metre line is 15 metres in-field and parallel with the touch-line.
Scrum after line-out. Any scrum ordered because of an infringement or stoppage at
the line-out is on the 15-metre line on the line-of-touch
7	FORMING A LINE-OUT
(a)	Minimum. At least two players from each team must form a line-out.
(b)	Maximum. The team throwing in the ball decides the maximum
number of players in the line-out.
(c)	The opposing team may have fewer line-out players but they must not
have more.
(d)	When the ball is in touch, every player who approaches the line-of- (FK
touch is presumed to do so to form a line-out.
(e)	If the team throwing in the ball put fewer than the usual number of
players in the line-out, their opponents must be given a reasonable time -
to move enough players out of the line-out to satisfy this law.
85
LAW 19 - TOUCH. LINE-OUT AND LINE-OUT OFF-SIDE
■RB
(0
(g)
(k)
i - hive th-' hne-out without delay. They must move
m "he off side line. 16 metres behind the line-of-touch. If the line-out
ends before they reach this line, they may rejo.n play.
Failure to form a line-out. A team must not voluntarily fail to form a
line-out.
Where the line-out
players must stand.
The front of the line-out is
not less than 5 metres from the
touch-line. The back of the line-
out is not more (han 15 metres
from the touch-line. All line-out
players must stand between these
two points.
Two single straight
lines. The line-out
players of both teams form two
single parallel lines each at right
angles to the touch-line.
Opposing players ('fk')
forming a line-out must -------z
keep a clear space between their
inside shoulders. This space is
determined when players are in
an upright stance.
IttUM-OUJ
Metre gap. Each line of players must be half a metre on their side of <pK~
the line-of-touch. '
Pcnalty:(a) ■ (k) Free Kick on the 15-metre line
(I) The line-of-touch must not be within five etres of the goal line.
(m)
After the line-out has formed, but before the ball has been thrown in, a
player must not hold, push, charge into, or obstruct an opponent
PK
Penalty: Penalty Kick on the 15-metre line
86
LAW 19 -TOUCH. LINE-OUT AND LINE-OUT OFF-SIDE
iRB
8 beginning and ending a line-out
(a)	Linc-out begins. The line out begins when the ball leaves the hands of the
player throwing it in.
(b)	Line-out ends. The line-out ends when the ball or a player canyine it leaves
the line-out.
This includes the following:
When the ball is thrown, knocked or kicked out of the linc-out, the line-out
ends
When a line-out player hands the ball to a player who is peeling-off, the line-
out ends.
When the ball is thrown beyond the 15-mctre line, or when a player takes or
puts it beyond that line, the line-out ends.
When a ruck or maul develops in a linc-out, and all the feet of all the players
in the ruck or maul move beyond the line-of-touch. the line-out ends.
When the ball becomes unplayable in a line-out, the line-out ends. Play restarts
with a scrum.
9 OPTIONS AVAILABLE IN A LINE-OUT
(a)	OfT-sidc. A line-out player must not be off-side. The off-side line runs through
the line-of-touch until the ball is thrown in. After the ball has touched a player
or the ground, the off-side line is a line through the ball.
Penalty: Penalty Kick on the 15-metre line
(b)	Players jumping for the ball may take a step in any direction providing they do
not step across the line-of-touch.
Penalty: Penalty Kick on the 15-metre line
(c)	Levering on an opponent. A line-out player must not use an opponent as a
support when jumping.
Penalty: Penalty Kick on the 15-mctre line
87
LAW 19 TOUCH. LINE OUT AND LINE-OUT OFF-SIDE
■RB
(d)
(0
Holding or shoving./\ line- ('fk')
out player must not hold. vx
push, charge, obstruct or grasp an
opponent not holding the ball except
when a ruck or maul is taking place.
Penalty: Penalty Kick on the 15-
metre line
Illegal charging. A line-
out player must not charge
an opponent except in an attempt to
tackle the opponent or to play the
ball.
Penally: Penally Kick on the 15-
metre line
Levering on a team-mate.
A jumping line-out player
must not use a team-mate as a support
to jump.
Penalty: Free Kick on the 15-mctre
line
•OUtns Ktlcr.’C-IM'Mn
Lining. A line-out player must not ^FK*
lift a team-mate. x
Penalty: Free Kick on the 15-metre
line
THROW-IN NOT 5M: ILLEGAL
(h)
Support before jumping.
A player must not support a
team-mate before the team-mate has
jumped.
Penalty: Free Kick on the 15-metre
line
88
1A\V 19 - TOUCH, LINE-OUT AND LINE-OUT OFF-SIDE
■RB
jumping or supporting before the ball is thrown.
A player must not jump for the ball or support any player before the^^-
ball has left the hands of the player throwing it in.
Penalty: Free Kick on the 15-mctre line
0)
(k)
(I)
Support below the waist. A player must not support a jumping team-
mate below the waist.
Penalty: Penalty Kick on the 15-mctre line
Blocking the throw-in. A line-out player must not stand less than 5
metres from the touch-line. A line-out player must not prevent the ball
being thrown in 5 metres.
PK
FK
Penalty: Free Kick on the 15 metre line
When the ball has been thrown beyond a player in the line-out, that
player may move to the space between the touch-line and the 5 metres xjJSx
mark. If the player moves into that space the player must not move
towards that player’s goal-line before the line-out ends, except in a peeling off
movement.
Penalty: Free-Kick on the 15-mctre line
(m) Catching or deflecting. When jumping for the ball, a player must use
either both hands or the inside ami to try to catch or deflect the ball. '
The jumper must not use the outside arm alone to try to catch or deflect (he ball.
If the jumper has both hands above the head either hand may be used to play
the ball.
Penalty: Free Kick on the 15-metrc line.
89
LAW 19 - TOUCH. LINE-OUT AND LINE-OUT OFF-SIDE
iRB
10 OPTIONS AVAILABLE TO PLAYERS NOT IN THE LINE-OUT
In general, a player not taking part in a line-out must stay at least 10 metres
behind the line-of-touch. or on or behind that player s goal-line if that is nearer,
until the line-out ends.
There are two exceptions to (his:
Exception 1: Long throw-in. If the player who is throwing in throws
the ball beyond the 15-metre line, a player of the same team may run <*j£.
forward to take the ball. If that player does so. an opponent may also run
forward.
Penalty: Penalty Kick on the offending team’s off-side line, opposite the place
of infringement but not less than 15 metres from the touch line.
Exception 2: Receiver runs into a gap. A receiver may run into a gap
in the line-out and take the ball. The receiver must not charge or
obstruct an opponent in the line-out during such action.
PK
Penalty: Penalty Kick on the 15-metre line
Il PEELING OFF
DEFINITION
A line-out player ’peels off’ when leaving the line-out to catch the ball knocked or
passed back by a team-mate. Except for peeling off or joining a ruck or maul, a line-
out player must not leave the line-out until it ends.
(FK)
(a)
(b)
When: A player must not peel off until the ball has left the hands of
the player throwing it in.
Where: A player who peels off. must stay near the line-out and move Q1JS-
parallel with it until the line-out ends or a ruck or maul is formed and that
player joins it.
Penalty: Free Kick on the 15-metre line
(c)	Players may change their positions in the line-out before the ball is thrown in.
90
LAW 19 - TOUCH, LINE-OUT AND LINE-OUT OFF-SIDE
■RB
I2 OFF-SIDE AT THE LINE-OUT
(a)	When a line-out forms, there are two separate off-side lines, parallel to the
goal-lines, for the teams.
(b)	Participating players. One off-side line applies to the players taking pan in
the line-out (usually some or all of the forwards, plus the scrum-half and the
player throwing in). Until the ball is thrown in, and has touched a player or the
ground, this off-side line is the line-of-touch. After that, the off-side line is a
line through the ball.
(c)	Players not taking part. The other off-side line applies to the players not
taking part in the line-out (usually the backs). For them, the off-side line is 10
metres behind the line-of-touch or their goal line, if that is nearer.
The line-out off-side law is different in the case of a long throw-in, or in the
case of a ruck or maul in the line-out.
13	OFF-SIDE WHEN TAKING PART IN THE LINE-OUT
(a)	Before the ball has touched a player or the ground. A player must
not overstep the line-of-touch. A player is off-side, if. before the ball
has touched a player or the ground, that player oversteps the line-of-touch,
unless doing so while jumping for the ball. The player must jump from that
player's side of the line-of-touch.
Penalty: Penalty Kick on the 15-metre line
(b)	If a player jumps and crosses the line-of-touch but fails to catch the ball, that
player is not penalised provided that player gets back on-side without delay.
(c)	After the ball has touched a player or the ground. A player not <pK~')
carrying the ball is off-side if, after the ball has touched a player or the
ground, that player steps in front of the ball, unless tackling (or trying to tackle)
an opponent. Any attempt to tackle must start from that player's side of the ball.
(d)	The referee must penalise any player who, voluntarily or not. moves
into an off-side position without trying to win possession or tackle an
opponent.
Penalty: Penally Kick on the 15-metre line
91
LAW 19 • TOUCH. LINE OUT AND LINE-OUT OFF-SIDE
iRB
14	PLAYER THROWING-IN
There are four options available to the player throwing-in (and the thrower's
immediate opponent):
(a)	The thrower may stay within 5 metres of (he touch-line.
(b)	The thrower may retire to the off-side line 10 metres behind the lincof-touch.
(c)	The thrower may join the line-out as soon as the ball has been thrown 5 metres.
(d)	The thrower may move into the receiver position if that position is empty.
If the thrower goes anywhere else, the thrower is off-side.
Penalty: Penally Kick on the 15-metre line
15	OFF-SIDE WHEN NOT TAKING PART IN THE LINE-OUT
(a)	Before the line-out has ended. The off-side line is 10 metres behind the line-
of-touch, or the player's goal-line, whichever is nearer.
A player who is not taking pari in the line-out is offside if that player
oversteps the off-side line before the line-out has ended.
Penalty: Penalty Kick on the offending team’s off-side line opposite the place
of infringement, at least 15 metres from the touch-line.
(b)	Players not yet on-side when the ball is thrown in A player may throw
in the ball even if a team-mate has not yet reached the off-side line. ZpjTN
However, if this player is not trying to reach an on-side position
without delay, this player is off-side.
Penalty: Penalty Kick on the offending team’s off-side line opposite the place
of infringement, at least 15 metres from the touch-line
Exception: Long throw-in. There is an exception to the law of off-side at the
i aPPlies1iflllc bal1 ‘s thrown beyond the 15-metre line. As soon as
. J" 3 caves hands of the player throwing in. any players of the thrower’s
team may run for the ball.
92
LAW 19 - TOUCH. LINE-OUT AND LINE-OUT OFF-SIDE iRB
This means that a player taking part in the line-out may run in-field beyond the
15-metre line, and a player not taking pan in the line-out may run forward
across the off-side line.
If this happens, an opponent may also run in-field or run forward.
However, if a player runs in-field or runs forward to take a long throw-
in. and the ball is not thrown beyond the 15-metre line, this player
off-side and must be penalised.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
For players taking part in the line-out. penalty kick is on the 15-metre line.
For players not taking part in the line-out: penalty kick is on the offending
team's off-side line at the place of infringement, at least 15 metres from the
touch-line.
16	OFF-SIDE AT RUCKS OR MAULS IN THE LINE-OUT
(a)	When a ruck or a maul develops in a line-out. the off-side line for a player
taking part in the line-out no longer runs through the ball. The off-side line is
now the hindmost foot of that player's team in the nick or maul.
(b)	However, for players not taking part in the line-out. the off-side line is still 10
metres behind the line-of-touch. For these players, the line-out does not end
when a ruck or maul develops.
(c)	It ends when the ruck or maul leaves the line-of-touch. For this to happen, all
the feet of all the players in the ruck or maul must have left the line-of-touch.
(d)	A player taking pan in the line-out must either join the ruck or maul,
or retire to the off-side line and stay at that line. Otherwise that player N-—x
is off-side.
Penalty: Penalty Kick on (he 15-metre line
(e)	The rest of the law of ruck or maul applies. A player must not join the (^PK^)
ruck or maul from the opponents' side.
Players must not join it in front of the off-side line. If they do, they are off-
side.
Penalty: Penalty Kick on the 15-metre line
93
LAW 20 - SCRUM ____________________________ ?J?B
-------------------- ------------------------------X
Players not taking part in (he line-out. When a ruck or maul develops
in a line-out. the line-out has not ended until all the feet of all the s-.—
players in the ruck or maul have moved beyond the line-of-touch. xfjO
Until then, the off-side line for players not taking pan in the line-out is still io
metres behind the line-of-touch, or the goal-line if that is nearer A player who
oversteps this off-side line is off-side.
Penalty: Penalty Kick on the off-side line at least 15 metres from the touch-
line.
94
] A\v 20 - SCRUM
iRB
LAW 20 - SCRUM
definitions
Tie purpose of the scrum is to restart play quickly, safely and fairly, after a minor
infringement or a stoppage.
A scrum is formed in the ficld-of-play when eight players from each team, bound
together in three rows for each team, close up with their opponents so that the heads of
the front rows are interlocked This creates a tunnel into which a scrum-half throws in
the ball so that front-row players can compete for possession by hooking the ball with
either of their feet.
The tunnel is the space between the two front rows.
The player of either team who throws the ball into the scrum is the scrum-half.
The middle line is an imaginary line on the ground in the tunnel beneath the line where
the shoulders of the two front rows meet.
The middle player in each front row is the hooker.
The players on either side of the hooker are the props. The left-side props are the loose-
head props. The right-side props are the tight-head props.
The two players in the second row who shove on the props and the hooker are the
locks.
The outside players who bind onto the second or third row are the flankers.
The player in the third row who usually pushes on both locks is the No.8.
Alternatively, the No. 8 may shove on a lock and a flanker.
I FORMING A SCRUM
(a)	Where the scrum takes place. The place for a scrum is where the
infringement or stoppage happened, or as near to it as is practicable in the field-
of-play, unless otherwise stated in law.
(b)	If this is less than 5 metres from a touch-line, the place for the scrum is 5 metres
from that touch line. A scrum can take place only in (he fleld-of-play. The
middle line of the scrum must not be within 5 metres of the goal-line when it
is formed.
95
LAW 20 - SCRUM
■RJ0
(c)	If there is an infringement or stoppage in in-goal, the place for the scrum is 5
metres from the goal-line.
(d)	The scrum is formed in line with the place of (he infringement or stoppage.
(e)	No delay. A team must not voluntarily delay forming a scrum.
Penally: Free Kick
(f)	Number of players: eight. A scrum must have eight players from each
team. All eight players must stay bound to the scrum until it ends,
Each front row must have three players in it. no more and no less. Two lock?
must form the second row.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
Exception : When a team is reduced to fewer than fifteen for any
reason, then the number of players of each team in the scrum may be
similarly reduced. Where a permitted reduction is made by one team, there ii
no requirement for the other team to make a similar reduction. I lowever, a lean
must not have fewer than five players in the scrum.
Penally: Penalty Kick
(g)	Front rows coming together. First, the referee marks with a foot the ZmT'
place where the scrum is to be formed Before the two front rows come >
together they must be standing not more than an ami's length apart. The ball i:
in the scrum-halfs hands, ready to be thrown in The front rows must croud
so that when they meet, each player’s head and shoulders are no lower than thi
hips. The front rows must interlock so that no player's head is next to the heat
of a team-mate.
(h)
The front-rows crouch and pause, and then come together only when
the referee calls 'engage’. This call is not a command but an indication
that the front rows may come together when ready.
(fk
Penalty: Free Kick
(i) A crouched position is the extension of the normal stance by bending the knee
sufficiently to move into the engagement without a charge.
Ci) Charging. A front row must not form at a distance from its opponents
and rush against them. This is dangerous play. X '
Penalty: Penalty Kick
96
LAW 20 - SCRUM
■RB
(k)
Stationary and parallel. Until the ball leaves the scmm-halfs
hands, the scrum must be stationary and the middle line must be^^-^
parallel to the goal-lines. A team must not shove (he scrum away from the mirk
before the ball is thrown in.
Penalty: Free Kick
2 FRONT-ROW PLAYERS’ POSITIONS
(a)	All players in a position to shove. When a scrum has formed, the
body and feet of each front-row player must be in a normal position
to make a forward shove.
(b)
(c)
This means that the front row players must have both feet on the
ground, with their weight firmly on at least one foot. Players must not MjSz
cross their feet, although the foot of one player may cross a team-mate's foot.
Each player's shoulders must be no lower than the hips.
Penalty: Free Kick
Hooker in a position to hook. Until the ball is thrown in, a hooker
must be in a position to hook the ball The hookers must have both z
feet on the ground, with their weight firmly on at least one foot. A hooker’s
foremost foot must not be in front of the foremost foot of that team’s props.
Penalty: Free Kick
3 BINDING IN THE SCRUM
DEFINITION
When a player binds on a team-mate that player must use the whole arm from hand to
shoulder to grasp the team-mate's body at or below the level of the armpit. Placing
only a hand on another player is not satisfactory binding.
(a)	Binding by all front-row players. All front-row players must bind (JPK^)
firmly and continuously from the start to the finish of the scrum.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(b)	Binding by hookers. The hooker may bind either over or under the (^PK^)
arms of the props. The props must not support the hooker so that the
hookcr has no weight on cither foot.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
97
LAW 20 - SCRUM
iRB
Binding by loose-head props. A loose-head prop must either bind on
the opposing tight-head prop by placing the left ami inside the right
ami of the tight-head prop or by placing the left hand or forearm on the left
thigh. The loose-head prop may change to the alternative position at any time.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
Binding by tight-head props.
Tight-head props must bind on v—-
PK
BINDING By PROPS
the opposing loose-head props' by I
placing their right arm outside the left
upper ami of the opposing loose-head <jfc
prop. The tight-head props must grip the \/r
loose-head props' jerseys to keep ' (( s?
themselves and the scrum steady. The mmuki
tight-head props must not bind on the 1 Ak *
opposition loose-head props' amis or
sleeves. They must not exert downward
pressure.
Penally: Penalty Kick
(c)	Binding by all other players. All players in a scrum, other than front-
row players, must bind on a lock's body with at least one ami. The
locks must bind with the props in front of them. No player other than a prop
may hold an opponent.
Penalty: Penally Kick
(f)	Flanker obstructing opposing scrum-half. A flanker may bind onto
the scrum at any angle, provided the flanker is properly bound. The
flanker must not widen that angle and so obstruct the opposing scrum-half
moving forward.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(g)	Scrum collapse. If a scrum collapses, the referee must blow the whistle
immediately so that players stop pushing.
(h)	Player forced upwards. If a player in a scrum is lifted in the air. or is forced
upwar s out of the scrum, the referee must blow the whistle immediately so
that players stop pushing.
98
LAW 20 - SCRUM
iRB
4 THE TEAM THROWING THE BALL INTO THE SCRUM
(a)	After an infringement, the team that did not cause the infringement throws in
the ball.
(b)	Scrum after ruck. Refer to Law 16.7 page 71
(a) Scrum after maul. Refer to Law 17.6 page 74
(b)	Scrum after any other stoppage. After any other stoppage or irregularity not
covered by law, the team that was moving forward before the stoppage throws
in the ball. If neither team was moving forward, the attacking team throws in
the ball.
5	THROWING THE BALL INTO THE SCRUM
(a) No Delay. As soon as the front rows have come together, the scrum- ('fk')
half must throw in the ball without delay. The scrum-half must throw V''—
in the ball when told to do so by the referee. The scrum-half must throw in the
ball from the side of the scrum first chosen.
(b) Voluntary delay in throwing in the ball must be penalised.
Penalty: Free Kick
6. HOW THE SCRUM-HALF THROWS IN THE BALL
(a) The scrum-half must stand one metre from the scrum, on the middle ^FK^
line.
(b) The scrum-half must hold the ball with both hands, over the middle (^FK^)
line between the front rows, midway between the knee and ankle.
(c)	The scrum-half must throw in the ball at a quick speed. COS-)
(d)	The scrum-half must throw in the ball straight along the middle line, ^FK^
so that it first touches the ground immediately beyond the width of the
nearer prop's shoulders.
(e)	The scrum-half must throw in the ball with a single forward
movement. This means that there must be no backward movement
with the ball. The scrum-half must not pretend to throw the ball.
Penally: Free Kick
99
■RB
LAW 20 - SCRUM
SCRUM
7. WHEN THE SCRUM BEGINS
(a) Play in the scrum begins when the ball leaves the hands of the scrum-half.
(b) If the scrum-half throws in the ball and it comes out at cither end of the tunnel,
the ball must be thrown in again unless a free kick or penalty has been awarded.
(c)	If the ball is not played by a front-row player, and it goes straight through the
tunnel and comes out behind the foot of a far prop without being touched, the
scrum-half must throw it in again.
(d)	If the ball is played by a front-row player and comes out of the tunnel,
advantage may apply.
8 FRONT-ROW PLAYERS
(a) Striking before the throw*in (Toot up’). All front-row players must
place their feet to leave a clear tunnel. Until the ball has left the scrum- '*•——'
halfs hands, they must not raise or advance a foot They must not do anything
to stop (he ball being thrown in to the scrum correctly or touching the ground
at the correct place.
Penalty: Free Kick
100
I AW 20 - SCRUM
iRB
(b) striking after the throw-in. Once the ball touches the ground in the tunnel.
any front-row player may use either foot to try to win possession of the ball. ’
zc) Kicking-out. A front-row player must not voluntarily kick the ball out
of the tunnel in the direction from which it was thrown in. KjJSJ
Penalty: Free Kick
(d)	If the ball is kicked out involuntarily, the same team must throw it in again.
(e)	If the ball is repeatedly kicked out. the referee must treat this as
voluntary and penalise the offender. KLfS-'
Penalty: Free Kick
(f)	Swinging. A front-row player must not strike for the ball with both
feet. No player may voluntarily raise both feel from the ground, either
when the ball is being thrown in or afterwards.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(g)	Twisting, dipping or collapsing. Front-row players must not twist or ('pk')
lower their bodies, or pull opponents, or do anything that is likely to v y
collapse the scrum, either when the ball is being thrown in or afterwards.
Penalty: Penally Kick
(h)	Referees must penalise strictly any voluntary collapsing of (he scrum. (Tk}
This is dangerous play.
Penalty: Penally Kick
(i)	Lifting or forcing an opponent up. A front-row player must not lift
an opponent in the air, or force an opponent upwards out of the scrum.
either when the ball is being thrown in or afterwards. This is dangerous p ay.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
101
LAW 20 • SCRUM________________________________________________________
9 SCRUM - GENERAL RESTRICTIONS
(a) All players: Collapsing. A player must not voluntarily collapse a
scrum. A player must not voluntarily fall or kneel in a scrum. This is X*
dangerous play.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(b) All players: Handling in the scrum. Players must not handle the ball
in the scrum or pick it up with their legs.
Penally: Penalty Kick
(c)	All players: Other restrictions on winning the ball. Players must
not try to win the ball in the scrum by using any pan of their body X*j£>
except their foot or lower leg.
Penalty: Free Kick
(d)	All players: When the ball comes out, leave it out. When the ball
has left the scrum, a player must not bring it back in to the scrum. '
Penalty: Free Kick
(e)	All players: No falling on the ball. A player must not fall on or over (TiT)
the ball as it is coming out of the scrum. v
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(f)	Locks and flankers: Staying out of the tunnel. A player who is not (J-TT)
a front-row player must not play the ball in the tunnel.
Penally: Free Kick
(g)	Scrum-half: Kicking In the scrum. A scrum-half must not kick the
ball while it is in the scrum. -------------------------------------------
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(h)	Scrum-half: Dummying. A scrum-half must not take any action to z-r^Tx
make the opponents think that the ball is out of the scrum while it is xJ—S-'
still in the scrum.
Penalty: Free Kick
102
IAW 20 - SCRUM
iRB
(i)	Scrum-half: Holding opposing Hanker. A scrum-half must not
grasp an opposing Hanker in order to gain leverage, or for any other
reason.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
io ENDING THE SCRUM
(a) The ball comes out. When the ball comes out of the scrum in any direction
except the tunnel, the scrum ends.
Scrum in an in-goal. A scrum
cannot take place in an In-goal.
When the ball in a scrum is on or over
the goal-line, the scrum ends and an
attacker or a defender may legally
ground (he ball for a try or a touch-
down.
Hindmost player unbinds. The
hindmost player in a scrum is the
player whose feet are nearest the
team's own goal line. If the hindmost
player unbinds from the scrum with
the bail at that player's feet and picks
up the ball, the scrum ends.
HINDMOST PLAYER UNBINDS
11 SCRUM WHEELED
(a) If a scrum is wheeled through more than 90 degrees, so that the middle line has
passed beyond a position parallel to the touch-line, the referee must stop play
and order another scrum.
(b) This new scrum is formed at the place where the previous scrum ended. The
ball is thrown in by the te«Tm that had won possession. If neither team won
possession, it is thrown in by the team (hat previously threw it in.
103
LAW 20 - SCRUM
■RB
OFF-SIDE AT THE SCRUM
DEFINITION
At a scrum, (he off-side line for the scrum-halves runs through the line of the ball in
the scrum. For every other player the off-side line runs through the hindmost foot of
that player's team in the scrum. If the hindmost foot of a team is on or behind that
team's goal-line, the off-side line is the goal-line. The off-side lines are parallel to the
goal-lines.
The purpose of the scrum off-side law is to ensure that, until the scrum ends, the team
winning the ball has a clear space in which to make use of it.
(a)	Off-side for scrum-halves. When a team has won the ball in a scrum. <pi7\
the scrum-half of that team is off-side if both feet are in front of the ball
while it is still in the scrum. If the scrum-half has only one foot in front of the
ball, the scrum-half is not off-side.
When a team has won the
ball in a scrum, the '
scrum-half of the opposing team
is off-side if that scrum-half steps
in front of the ball with either foot
while the ball is still in the scrum.
The scrum-half whose ('’pp'")
team does not win^-------------J
possession of the ball must not
move to the opposite side of the
scrum and overstep the off-side
line running through the hindmost
foot of that player’s team in the
scrum.
SCRUM Of F-Sm
I OFF-SIDE LINE
The scrum-half whose team does
not Win possession of the ball must not move away from the scrum
and then remain in front of the off-side line running through the^^
hindmost foot of that player’s team in the scrum.
h-jf P'aye[ may scrum-half, but a team can have only one scrum-
halt at each scrum. <ri\
Penalty: Penalty Kick on the off-side line.
104
I Aw 21 - PENALTY AND FREE KICKS gRQ
(f)	Off-side for players not in the scrum. Players who arc not in the .___>
scrum, and who arc not the team's scrum-half, arc off-side if they CPA
remain in front of their off-side line or overstep the off-side line. 3
Penalty: Penalty Kick on the off-side line
(g)	Loitering. When a scrum is forming, players not taking pan in it x—>
must retire to their off-side line without delay. If they do not. they are
loitering. Loiterers must be penalised.
Penalty: Penalty Kick on the off-side line.
105
LAW 21 - PENALTY AND FREE KICKS
■Re
LAW 21 ■ PENALTY AND FREE KICKS
DEFINITION
Penalty kicks and free kicks are awarded to the non-offending team for infringements
by their opponents.
I WHERE PENALTY AND FREE KICKS ARE AWARDED
Unless a law states otherwise, the mark for a penally or free kick is at the place
of infringement.
WHERE PENALTY AND FREE KICKS ARE TAKEN
(a)
3
(a)
(b)
(c)
The kicker must lake the penalty or free kick at the mark or anywhere behind
it on a line through the mark. If the place for a penalty or free kick is within 5
metres of the opponents* goal-line, the mark for the kick is 5 metres from the
goal-line, opposite the place of infringement
When a penalty or free kick is
awarded for an infringement in in-
goal, the mark for the kick is in
the field-of play, 5 metres from
the goal-line, in line with (he
place of infringement.
Penalty: Any infringement by the
kicker's team results in a scrum at
the mark. The opposing team
throws in the ball.
HOW THE PENALTY AND
FREE KICKS ARE TAKEN
Any player may take a penalty or
free kick awarded for an
infringement with any kind of
kick: punt, drop kick or place kick. The ball may be kicked with any pan of
the leg from knee to toe but not with the heel.
Bouncing the ball on the knee is not taking a kick,
Sti;CkCr mUS’ USC ,he 1x111 ,hal was in P,ay un,ess ,hc rcfcrcc decides it was
Penalty: Any infringement by the kicker’s
The opposing team throws in the ball.
team results in a scrum at the mark.
106
LAW 21 - PENALTY AND FREE KICKS
iRB
4
(a)
(b)
(0
(d)
(0
(0
(g)
(h)
(i)
PENALTY AND FREE KICK OPTIONS AND REQUIREMENTS
Scrum alternative. A team awarded a penalty
instead They throw in the ball.
or free kick may choose a scrum
No delay. If a kicker indicates to the referee the intention to kick a penally kick
at goal, the kick must be taken within one minute from the time (he player
indicates the intention to kick at goal. If the one minute is exceeded the kick is
disallowed, a scrum ordered at the place of the mark and the opponents throw
in the ball.
A clear kick. The kicker must kick the ball a visible distance. If the kicker is
holding it, it must clearly leave the hands. If it is on the ground, it must clearly
leave the mark.
Place kicking for touch. The kicker may punt or drop kick for touch but must
not place kick for touch.
Kicker's freedom of action. The kicker is free to kick the ball in any direction
and may play the ball again.
Kick taken in the in-goal. When a penalty or free kick is taken in the team's
in-goal and a defending player by foul play prevents an opponent from scoring
a try, a penalty try is awarded.
Out of play in the in-goal. If the penalty or free kick is taken in the In-goal,
and the ball goes into touch-in-goal or on or over the dead-ball line, a 5-metre
scrum is awarded. The attacking team throws in the ball.
Behind the ball. All the kicker's team at a penally or free kick must be behind
the ball until ii has been kicked, except the placer for a place kick.
Kick taken quickly. If the
penalty or free kick is taken so
quickly that players of the
kicker's team are still in front of
the ball, they are not penalised
for being off-side. However,
they must retire immediately.
They must not stop retiring until
they are on-sidc. They must not
take pan in the game until they
are on-sidc This applies to all
players of that team, whether
they arc inside or outside (he
playing area.
107
LAW 21 - PENALTY AND FREE KICKS
iRB
(j) In this situation, players become on-side when they run behind the team-mate
who took the penalty or free kick, or when a team-mate carrying the ball runs
in front of them, or when a team-mate who was behind the ball when it was
kicked runs in front of them.
(k) An off-side player cannot be put on-side by any action of an opponent.
Penally: Unless otherwise staled in law any infringement by the kicker’s team
results in a scrum at the mark. The opposing team throw in the ball.
5	SCORING A GOAL FROM A PENALTY KICK
(a)	A penally goal can be scored from a penalty kick.
(b)	If the kicker indicates to the referee the intention to kick at goal, the kicker
must kick at goal. Once the kicker has made the intention clear, here can be no
change of the intention. The referee may enquire of the kicker as to the
intention.
(c)
(d)
(e)
If the kicker indicates to the referee the
intent to kick at goal, the opposing team
must stand still with their hands by their
sides from the time the kicker starts to
approach to kick until the ball is kicked.
If the kicker has not indicated an
intention to kick at goal but takes a drop
kick and scores a goal, the goal stands.
If the opposing team infringes while the
kick is being taken but the kick at goal is
successful, the goal stands. A further
penally is not awarded for the
infringement.
(f) The kicker may place the ball on sand, sawdust or a kicking tec approved by
the Union. e rr j
108
LAW 21 - PENALTY AND FREE KICKS hRB________
6	SCORING FROM A FREE KICK
(a) A goal cannot Lx-’ scorecl from a free kick.
(b)	The team awarded a free kick cannot score a dropped goal until after the ball
next becomes dead.or after an opponent has played or touched it. or has tackled
the ball-camer. Tins restriction applies also to a scrum taken instead of a free
kick.
7	WHAT THE OPPOSING TEAM MUST DO ATA PENALTY KICK
(a) Must run from the mark. The opposing team must immediately run towards
their own goal-line until they are at least 10 metres away from the mark for the
penalty kick, or until they have reached their goal-line if that is nearer the mark
(b) Must keep running. Even if the penally kick is taken and the kicker's team is
playing the ball, opposing players must keep running until they have retired the
necessary distance. They must not take pan in the game until they have done
so.
(c)	Kick taken quickly. If the penalty kick is taken so quickly that opponents have
no opportunity to retire, they will not be penalised for this. However, they must
continue to retire as described in (b) above or until a team-mate who was 10
metres from the mark has run in front of them, before they take part in the
game.
(d)	Interference. The opposing team must not do anything to delay the penalty
kick or obstruct (he kicker. They must not voluntarily take, throw or kick the
ball out of reach of the kicker or the kicker’s team-mates.
Penalty: Any infringement by the opposing team results in a second penalty
kick, 10 metres in front of the mark for the first kick. This mark must not be
within 5 metres of the goal-line. Any player may take the kick. The kicker may
change the type of kick and may choose to kick at goal. If the referee awards a
second penalty kick, the second penalty kick is not taken before the referee has
made the mark indicating the place of the penalty
8	WHAT OPTIONS THE OPPOSING TEAM HAVE AT A FREE KICK
(a) Must run from the mark. The opposing team must immediately run towards
their own goal-line until they are at least 10 metres away from the mark forme
free kick, or until they have reached their goal-line if that is nearer the mark. If
the free kick is in a defending teams in-goal area, (he opposing uam mus
immediately run towards their own goal-line until they are at least me re
away from the mark and not nearer than 5 metres from the goal-hnc.
109
LAW 21 - PENALTY AND FREE KICKS
■RB
(b) Must keep running. Even if the free kick is taken and the kicker’s team is
playing the ball, opposing players must keep running until they have retired the
necessary distance. They must not take pan in the game until they have done
so.
(c)	Kick taken quickly. If the free kick is taken so quickly that opponents have
no opportunity to retire, they will not be penalised for this. However, they must
continue to retire as described in (b) above or until a team-mate who was 10
metres from the mark has run in front of them, before they take part in the
game.
(d)	Interference. The opposing team must not do anything to delay the free kick
or obstruct the kicker. They must not voluntarily take, throw or kick the ball
out of reach of the kicker or the kicker’s team-mates.
(e)	Charging the free kick. Once they have retired the necessary distance, players
of the opposing team may charge and try to prevent the kick being taken They
may charge the free kick as soon as the kicker starts to approach to kick.
(f)	Preventing the free kick. If the opposing team charge and prevent the free
kick being taken, the kick is disallowed. Play restarts with a scrum at the mark.
The opposing team throw in the ball.
(g)	Free kick taken in the in-goal. If a free kick has been awarded in the in-goal
or if it has been awarded in the field-of-play and the player retires to in-goal to
take it. and the opponents charge and prevent the kick from being taken, a 5-
metre scrum is ordered. The attacking team throw in the ball. If a free kick is
taken in the in-goal, an opponent who legitimately plays it there can score a try.
(h)	Charged down. If opponents charge down a free kick in the playing area, play
continues.
Penalty: Any infringement by the opposing team results in a second free kick.
awarded 10 metres in front of the mark for the first kick. This mark must not
be within 5 metres of the goal-line. Any player may take the kick. If the referee
awards a second free kick, the second free kick is not taken before the referee
has made the mark indicating the place of the free kick.
9	CONTRIVED INFRINGEMENTS AT THE PENALTY KICK
If the referee believes that the kicker’s team has contrived an infringement by
their opponents, the referee does not award a further penalty but allows play
continue. '
110
[AW2I - PENALTY AND FREE KICKS jRg_________
10 CONTRIVED INFRINGEMENTS AT THE FREE KICK
(a)	The kicker must not pretend to kick. As soon as the kicker makes a move to
kick, the opponents may charge.
(b) If the referee believes that the kicker’s team has contrived an infringement by
their opponents, the referee docs not award a further free kick but allows play
continue.
Ill
DURING THE MATCH - IN GOAL
■RB
iRB
IMTIRNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
DURING THE MATCH
In-Goal
Law 22 In-Goal
112
, k\V22 - IN-GOAL
iRB
in-goal
me is now being played according to the previous laws with teams attempting
T"e aximise their scoring opportunities by attacking their opponents' in-goal, whilst
*° ^noosing team will attempt to defend their own in-goal. There is one law that
vere all the activities that can take place in an in goal. (Law 22).
113
LAW 22 - IN-GOAL
■RB
LAW 22 - IN-GOAL
DEFINITIONS
In-goal is pan of the ground as defined in Law I where the ball may be grounded by
players from either team.
When attacking players arc first to ground the ball in the opponents’ in-goal, the
attacking players score a try.
When defending players are first to ground the ball in in-goal, the defending players
make a touch down.
A defending player who has one foot on the goal I ine or in the in-goal who receives
the ball is considered to be in in-goal.
I GROUNDING THE BALL
(a)
(b)
There are two ways a player can ground
the ball;
Player touches the ground with (he
ball. A player grounds the ball by
holding the ball and touching the
ground with it, in in-goal. ’Holding'
means holding in the hand or hands, or
in the arm or arms. No downward
pressure is required.
Player presses down on the ball. A
player grounds the ball when it is on the
ground in the in-goal and the player
presses down on it with a hand or hands.
arm or arms, or the front of the player’s
body from waist to neck inclusive.
PICKING UPTHEBALL
GROUNDING THB BALL
P‘ckin£ up ‘hc.baJI from the ground is not grounding it. A player may pick up
the ball in the in-goal and ground it elsewhere in the in-goal.
114
I AW 22-IN-GOAL
iRB
ball grounded by an attacking player
Try. When an attacking player who is on-side is first to ground the ball in the
opponents' in-goal. the player scores a try. This applies whether an attacking
or a defending player is responsible for the ball being in the in-goal.
OTHER WAYS TO SCORE A TRY
(a) Grounded on (he goal-line. The goal-line is pan of the in-goal. If an attackinc
player is first to ground the ball on the opponents' goal-line, a try is scored.
(b)	Grounded against a goal post. The goal posts and padding surrounding them
are part of the goal line which is part of in-goal. If an attacking player is first
to ground the ball against the goal post or padding, a try is scored.
(d)
(e)
Pushover try. A scrum or ruck cannot
take place in the in-goal If a scrum or
ruck is pushed into the in-goal, an
attacking player may legally ground the
ball as soon as the ball reaches or crosses
the goal-line and a try is scored.
Momentum try. If an attacking player
with the ball is tackled short of the goal-
line but the player's momentum carries
the player into (he opponent’s in-goal,
and the player is first to ground the ball.
a try is scored.
Tackled near the goal-line. If a player is
tackled near to the opponents' goal-line
so that this player can immediately reach
out and ground the ball on or over the
goal-line, a try is scored
CASES WHERE A TRY IS SCORED
(0 This player must not infringe the tackle law. The tackle law requires a tackled
player to play the ball immediately. I lowever. the tackled player may place the
ball on the ground in any direction provided it is done immediately.
(?) In this situation, defending players who are on their feet may legally prevent
the try by pulling the ball from the tackled player’s hands or amis, but must not
kick the ball.
115
LAW 22 - IN-GOAL
iRB
(h)	Player In touch or touch-in-goal. If an
attacking player is in touch or in touch-in-goal,
the player can score a try by grounding (he ball in
the opponents' in-goal provided the player is not
carrying the ball.
(i)	Penalty trv. A penally try is awarded if a try
would probably have been scored but for foul
play by the defending team. A penalty try is
awarded if a try would probably have been scored
in a better position but for foul play by the
defending team.
(j)	A penalty try is awarded between the goal posts.
The defending team may charge the conversion
kick after a penalty try.
5	BALL GROUNDED BY DEFENDING PLAYER
(a) Touch down. When defending players are first to ground the ball in their in-
goal. it results in a touch down.
(b) Player in touch or louch-in-goal. If defending players are in touch-in-goal,
they can make a touch down by grounding the ball in their in-goal provided
they are not carrying the ball
6	SCRUM OR RUCK IS PUSHED INTO IN-GOAL
A scrum or ruck can take place only in the field-of-play. Therefore, if a scrum
or ruck is pushed across the goal-line, a defending player may legally ground
the ball as soon as the ball reaches or crosses the goal-line. This results in a
touch down.
7	RESTARTING AFTER A TOUCH DOWN
(a) When an attacking player sends or carries the ball into (he opponents’ in-goal
and it becomes dead there, either because a defender grounded it or because it
went into touch-in-goal or on or over the dead-ball line, a drop-out is awarded.
(b) If an attacking player knocks-on or throws-forward in the field-of-play and the
a goes into the opponents’ In-goal and it is made dead there, a scrum is
awarded where the knock-on or throw-forward happened.
116
I a\V 22 - IN-GOAL
iRB
(0
If at a kick-off the ball is kicked into the opponents’ in-goal without having
touched or been touched by a player and a defending player grounds it there or
makes it dead without delay, the defending team have two choices:
To have a scrum formed at the centre, and they throw in the ball; or
To have the other team kick-off again.
(d) If a defending player threw or took the ball into the In-goal, and a defending
player grounded it. and there has been no infringement, play is restarted by a
5-metre scrum. The position of the scrum is in line with where the ball has
been touched down The attacking side throws in the ball.
8	BALL KICKED DEAD IN IN-GOAL
If a team kicks the ball through their opponents' in-goal, into touch-in-goal or
on or over the dead ball line, except by an unsuccessful kick at goal or
attempted dropped goal, the defending team has two choices:
To have a drop-out, or
To have a scrum at (he place where the ball was kicked and they throw in.
9	DEFENDING PLAYER IN IN-GOAL
A defending player who has part of one foot in in-goal is considered to have
both feet in in-goal.
10	BALL HELD UP IN-GOAL
When a player carrying the ball is held up in the in-goal so that the player
cannot ground the ball, the ball is dead A 5-metre scrum is fomied. This
would apply if play similar to a maul takes place in goal. The attacking team
throws in the ball.
11	BALL DEAD IN IN-GOAL
(a) When the ball or a player carrying it touches the comer post, the touch-in-goal
line or the dead-ball line, or touches the ground beyond those lines, the oaii
becomes dead. If the ball was carried or played into in goal by the attacking
team, a drop-out shall be awarded to the defending team. If t e a was carT*
or played into in-goal by the defending team, a 5-metre scrum s a aw ar i
and the attacking team throws in the ball.
(b) When a player scores a try or makes a touch-down, the ball becomes dead,
117
LAW 22 - IN-GOAL
iRB
12	ATTACKING INFRINGEMENT WITH SCRUM PENALTY
If an attacking player commits an infringement in in-goal, for which the penalty
is a semm, for example, a knock-on, play is restarted with a 5-metre scrum. The
scrum is formed in line with (he place of (he infringement and the defending
team throws in the ball.
13	DEFENDING INFRINGEMENT WITH SCRUM PENALTY
If a defending player infringes in in-goal, for which the penalty is a scrum, for
example, a knock-on, play is restarted with a 5-mctre scrum. The scrum is
formed in line with the place of the infringement and the attacking team throws
in the ball.
14	DOUBT ABOUT GROUNDING
If there is doubt about which team first grounded the ball in the in-goal, play is
re-started by a 5-mctre scrum, in line with the place where the ball was
grounded. The attacking team throws in the ball,
15	INFRINGEMENTS IN IN-GOAL
All infringements in the in-goal are treated as if they had taken place in the
field-of-play.
A knock-on or a throw-forward in the in goal results in a 5-metre scrum,
opposite the place of infringement.
Penalty: For an infringement, the mark for a penalty kick or free kick cannot
be in the in-goal.
When a penalty kick or free kick is awarded for an infringement in (he In-goal,
the mark for the kick is in the field-of-play. 5 metres from the goal-line,
opposite the place of infringement.
16	MISCONDUCT OR UNFAIR PLAY IN IN-GOAL
(a) Obstruction by the attacking team. When a player charges or voluntarily
obstructs, an opponent in the in-goal who has just kicked the ball, the
opponent s team may choose to lake the penalty kick either in the field-of-play.
Min ei i ,hc goaMinc opposite the place of infringement, or where the
ba landed e
118
I AW 22 - IN-GOAL jRB
If they make the second choice and the ball lands in or near touch, the mark for
the penalty kick is 15 metres from the touch-line, opposite where the ball wen
into touch or where it landed.
A try is disallowed and a penalty kick awarded if a iry would probably not have
been scored but for foul play by the attacking team.
(b) Foul Pln-V by lhe defending ‘cam. The referee awards a penalty try if a try
would probably have been scored but for foul play by the defending team.
The referee awards a penalty try if a try would probably have been scored in a
better position but for foul play by the defending team.
A penalty try is awarded between the goal posts. The defending team may
charge the conversion kick after a penalty try.
(c)	Any other foul play. When a player commits any other foul play in
the in-goal while the ball is out of play, the penalty kick is awarded at -'
the place where the game would otherwise have re-started.
Penalty: Penalty Kick.
119