DEFINITIONS
iRB
DEFINITIONS
Actual time: Elapsed time including time lost for any reason
Advantage: Law 8 - Advantage
Attacking team: The opponents of the defending team in whose half of the ground
play is taking place
Ball-carrier: A player carrying the ball
Beyond or behind or in front of a position: Means with both feet, except where
the context makes that inappropriate
Binding: Grasping firmly another player’s body between the shoulders and the
hips with the whole arm in contact from hand to shoulder
Captain: The captain is a player nominated by the team. Only the captain is
entitled to consult the referee during the match and is solely responsible for
choosing options relating to the referee’s decisions
Cavalry charge: Law 10 - Foul Play
Conversion kick: Law 9 - Method of Scoring
Converted: A conversion kick that was successful
Dangerous play: Law 10 - Foul Play
Dead: The ball is out of play. This happens when the ball has gone outside the
playing area and remained there, or when the referee has blown the whistle to
indicate a stoppage in play, or when a conversion kick has been taken
Dead ball line: Lav/1 - The Ground
Defending team: The team in whose half of the ground play is taking place; their
opponents are the Attacking Team
Drop-kick: The ball is dropped from the hand or hands to the ground and kicked
as it rises from its first bounce
Drop-out: Law 13 - Kick-Off and Restart Kicks
Dropped goal: Lav/ 9 - Method of Scoring
Field of play: Law 1 - The Ground
Flanker: Forward player who usually wears jersey No.6 or No 7
Flying wedge: Law 10 - Foul Play
Foul play: Law 10 - Foul Play
Free kick: Law 21 - Penalty and Free Kicks. A kick awarded to the non-offending
team after an infringement by its opponents Unless a Law states otherwise, a free
kick awarded because of an infringement is awarded at the place of infringement
Front row players: Law 20 - Scrum. The forward players who are the loose-head
prop, the hooker and the tight-head prop
Goal: A player scores a goal by kicking the ball over an opponents’ cross bar and
between the goal posts from the field of play, by a place kick or drop-kick. A goal
cannot be scored from a kick-off, drop-out or free kick
7
iRB
DEFINITIONS
Goal-line: Law 1 - The Ground
Grounding the ball: Law 22 • In-Goal
Half-time: The interval between the two halves of the game
Hindmost foot: The foot of the hindmost player in a scrum, ruck or maul which is
nearest that players goal-line
Hooker: The middle front row player in a scrum
In-field: Away from touch and towards the middle of the field
In-goal: Law 22 - In-Goal
Kick: A kick is made by hitting the ball with any part of the leg or foot, except the
heel, from the toe to the knee but not including the knee, a kick must move the ball
a visible distance out of the hand, or along the ground
Kick-off: Law 13 - Kick-off and Restart Kicks
Knock-on: Law 12 - Knock-on or Throw-forward
Lifting: Law 19 - Touch and Line-out
Line of touch: Law 19 - Touch and Line-out An imaginary line at right angles to
the touch-lme at the place where the ball is thrown in from touch
Line-out: Law 19 • Touch and Line-out
Line through the mark or place: unless stated otherwise, a line parallel to the
touch-line
Long throw; Law 19 - Touch and Line-out
Loose-head prop: Law 20 - Scrum. The left front row player in a scrum
Match organiser: the organisation responsible for the match which may be a
union, a group of unions or an organisation affiliated to the International Rugby
Board
Mark: Law 18 • Mark
Maul: Law 17 - Maul
Near: Law 14 - Within one metre
Obstruction: Law 10 - Foul Play
Off-side in open play: Law 11 - Off side and On-side in General Play
Off-side Line: An imaginary line across the ground, from one touch-line to the
other, parallel to the goal-lines, the position of this line varies according to the Law
Off-side the 10-Metre Law: Law 11 - Off-side and On-side in General Play
On-side: Law 11 - Off-side and On-side in General Play
Open or Bleeding Wound: Law 3 - Number of Players -The Team
Out of play: This happens when the ball or the ball-carrier has gone into touch or
touch-m-goal. or touched or crossed the dead ball line
Oversteps: A player steps across a line with one or both feet; the line may be real
(for example, goal-line) or imaginary (for example, off-side line)
Pass: A player throws the ball to another player, if a player hands the ball to
another player without throwing it, this is also a pass
8
DEFINITIONS
■RB
Peeling off: Law 19 - Touch and Line-Out
Penally goal: Law 9 - Method of Scoring
Penalty kick: Lav/ 21 - Penalty and Free Kicks - A kick awarded to the non-
offending team after an infringement by its opponents. Unless a Lav/ says
otherwise, a penally kick is awarded at the place of infringement
Penalty try: Law 10 - Foul Play
Place kick: The ball is kicked after it has been placed on the ground for that
purpose
Placer: A player who holds the ball on the ground for a team-mate to kick
Played: The ball is played v/hen it is touched by a player
Playing area: Law 1 - The Ground
Playing enclosure: Law 1 - The Ground
Playing time: The time that has been played excluding time lost as defined in Lav/
5 Time
Possession: This happens when a player is carrying the ball or a team has the
ball in its control; for example, the ball in one half ol a scrum or ruck is in that
team’s possession
Pre-gripping: Law 19 - Touch and Line-out Gripping a team-mate in the line-out
prior to the ball being thrown in
Prop: Lav/ 20 - Scrum. A front row player to the left or right of the hooker in a scrum
Punt: The ball is dropped from the hand or hands and kicked before it touches the
ground
Pushover try: Law 22 - In-Goal
Receiver: Law 19 - Touch and Line-Out
Red Card: A card, red in colour shown to a player who has been sent off for
contravening Law 10 - Foul Play. Law 4.5(c).
Referee: Law 6 - Match Officials
Repeated infringements: Law 10 - Foul Play
Replacements:Law 3 - Number of Players - The Team
Ruck: Law 16 - Ruck
Scrum: Law 20 - Scrum This happens when players from each team come
together in scrum formation so that play can be started by throwing the ball into
the scrum
Scrum-half: A player nominated to throw the ball into a scrum
Sin Bln: The designated area in which a temporarily suspended player must
remain for 10 minutes playing time
Substitutes: Law 3 - Number of Players - The Team
Tackle: Law 15 - Tackle Ball-Carrier Brought to the Ground
Team-mate: Another player of the same team
Temporarily suspended: Law 10 - Foul Play
The plan: Law 1 - The Ground
9
iRB
DEFINITIONS
The 22: Law 1 - The Ground
Throw-forward: Law 12 - Knock-On or Throw Forward
Throw-in: The act of the player who throws the ball into a scrum or a line-out
Tight-head prop: Law 20 - Scrum. The right front row player in a scrum
Touch: Law 19 - Touch and Line-Out
Touch down: Law 22 - In-goal
Touch-line: Law 1 - The Ground
Touch-ln-goal line: Law 1 - The Ground
Touch judge: Law 6 - Match Officials
Try: Law 9 - Method of Scoring
Union: The controlling body under whose jurisdiction the match is played; for an
International match it means the International Rugby Board or a Committee of the Board
Yellow card: A card, yellow m colour shown to a player who has been cautioned and
temporarily suspended lor 10 minutes playing time
Rugby Union is a sport which involves physical contact Any sport involving
physical contact has inherent dangers. It is very important that players play the
game in accordance with the Laws of the Game and be mindful of the safety of
themselves and others. It is the responsibility of those who coach or teach the
game to ensure that players are prepared in a manner which ensures compliance
with the Laws of the Game and in accordance with sale practices.
The 2003 Law Amendments are highlighted by
EXCEPT FOR
Note 1: At the November 2002 meetng of Council, it was agreed that a review of the I AB law book
was required which would not involve substantive law changes.
This has been commenced with this 2003 edition of the Law book
Note 2: There were numerous changes made to Laws at the April 2003 meeting of Council which
have been included in this 2003 edition of the Law book. Many of these were tor clarification.
referencing, syntax, understand ng. readability, updating and consistency They included the tollow-ng
Laws-Definitions; Law 1 2 and 1.3; Law 2.2-27, Law 4 1(d) and 4.5(a); Law 9 8.3(a); Law 11 Definition
and 11.4(f) and (g) and 11.9, Law 16.5(a), Law 17.4(a). Law 21 6(b); Regulation 12 3 extract
Noto 3: The La w changes that were not covered in Note 2 are substantive and are highlighted They
include the foltow-.ng Laws: Law 3 5(b-e). Law 5.7(g); Law 19.9(k) under-19 variation, has been deleted.
and slud length in Regulation 12.3 exlract.
Law amendments incorporated into this 2003 Law book, which were agreed by Council at the
November 2002 and Apnl 2003 meetings of Council, can be found on the IRB website at
hltp7/www.irb.com/laws_regs/laws/index.cfm
BEFORE THE MATCH
iRB
nESUB
PtnSHATPHM JtUCJT SO.WO
BEFORE THE MATCH
Law 1	The Ground
Law 2	The Ball
Law 3	Number of Players - The Team
Law 4	Players' Clothing
Law 5	Time
Law 6	Match Officials
iRB
LAW 1 - THE GROUND
Sf
TOUCH-IN-GOAL a
DEAD BALL LINE
.Not exceeding 70m
IN-GOAL
TOUCH-tN-GOAl o =
GOAL-LINE
TOUCH
22-METRE LINE
GOAL-LINE
DEAD BALL LINE
22-METRE LINE
10-METRELINE
HALF-WAY LINE |
10-METRELINE
Red dots are goal posts and red line Is the crossbar
THE PLAYING AREA
12
LAW 1 - THE GROUND
iRB
LAW 1 - THE GROUND
DEFINITIONS
The Ground is the total area shown on the plan. The Ground includes.
The Field of play is the area (as shown on the plan) between the goal-lines
and the touch-lines. These lines are not part of the field of play.
The Playing Area is the field of play and the in-goal areas (as shown on the
plan). The touch-lines, touch-in-goal lines and dead ball lines are not part of
the playing area.
The Playing Enclosure is the playing area and a space around it, not less
than 5 metres where practicable, which is known as the perimeter area.
In-goal is the area between the goal-line and the dead ball line, and between
the touch-in-goal lines. It includes the goal-line but it does not include the
dead ball line or the touch-m-goal lines.
‘The 22’ is the area between the goal line and the 22-metre line, including the
22-metre line but excluding the goal-line.
The Plan, including all the words and figures on it, is part of the Laws
1.1 SURFACE OF THE PLAYING ENCLOSURE
(a)	Requirement. The surface must at all times be safe to play on
(b)	Type of surface. The surface should be grass but may also be sand,
clay, snow or artificial grass. The game may be played on snow, provided
the snow and underlying surface is safe to play on It shall not be a
permanently hard surface such as concrete or asphalt
(c)	Artificial grass. In the case of artificial grass surfaces, they shall, until a
standard specification has been provided by the IRB. only be deemed
safe if the same surface has been specifically approved by the IRB.
13
jRB
LAW 1 - THE GROUND
1.2	REQUIRED DIMENSIONS FOR THE PLAYING ENCLOSURE
(a)	Dimensions. The field of play does not exceed 100 metres in length and
70 metres in width. Each in-goal does not exceed 22 metres in length
and 70 metres in width.
(b)	The length and breadth of the playing area are to be as near as possible
to the dimensions indicated All the areas are rectangular
(c)	The distance from the goal-line to the dead ball line should be not less
than 10 metres where practicable
1.3	LINES ON THE PLAYING ENCLOSURE
(a)	Solid Lines
The dead ball lines and touch-in-goal lines, both of which are outside the
in-goal areas;
The goal-lines, which ire within the in-goal areas but outside the field of
play;
The 22-metre lines; which are parallel to the goal-lines
The half-way line which is parallel to the goal-lines; and
The touch-lines which are outside the field of play.
(b)	Broken Lines:
The 10-metre lines, which run from one touch-line to the other, are 10
metres from each side of the half-way line and parallel to it, and
The 5-metre lines, which run from one 5-metre dash line to the other, are
5 metres from and parallel to the touch-lines.
14
LAW 1 -THE GROUND
iRB
(c)	Dash Lines
(i)	Six dash lines, each being I metre long, 5 metres from and parallel to
each goal-line positioned 5 metres and 15 metres from eacn touch-line
and in front of each goal post.
(ii)	Five dash lines, each one being 5 metres long, 15 metres in from and
parallel to each of the touch-lines, intersecting the 22-melre lines, the 10-
metre lines and the half-way line
(iii)	Two dash lines, 5 metres long. 15 metres from each of the touch-
lines. which start at the goal-line and end at the 5-metre dash line
(iv)	One dash line of 0.5 metre long intersects the center of the half-way
line.
All the lines must be suitably marked out according to the Plan
1.4	DIMENSIONS FOR GOAL POSTS AND CROSSBAR
(a)	The distance between the two goal posts is 5.6 metres.
(b)	The crossbar is placed between the two goal posts so that its top edge
is 3.0 metres from the ground.
(c)	The minimum height of the goal posts is 3.4 metres.
(d)	When padding is attached to the goal posts the distance from the goal-
line to the external edge of the padding must not exceed 300mm
15
iRB
LAW 1 -THE GROUND
1.5	FLAG POSTS
(a)	There are 14 flag posts with flags, each with a minimum height of 1.2
metres above the ground.
(b)	Flag posts must be positioned at the intersection of touch-m-goal lines
and the goal-lines and at the intersection of the touch-m-goal lines and
the dead ball lines. These eight flag posts are outside the in-goal area
and do not form part of the playing area
(c)	Flag posts must be positioned in line with the 22-metre lines and the half-
way line. 2 metres outside the touch-lines and within the playing
enclosure
1.6	OBJECTIONS TO THE GROUND
(a)	If either team has objections about the ground or the way it is marked out
they must tell the referee before the match starts
(b)	The referee will attempt to resolve the issues but must not start a match
if any part of the ground is considered to be dangerous
16
LAW 2 - THE BALL
IRB
LAW 2 - THE BALL
2.1	SHAPE
The ball must be oval and made of four panels.
2.2	DIMENSIONS
Length in line
Circumference (end to end)
Circumference (in width)
280 - 300 millimetres
740 - 770 millimetres
580 - 620 millimetres
2.3	MATERIALS
Leather or suitable synthetic material It may be treated to make it water
resistant and easier to grip.
2.4	WEIGHT
410 - 460 grams
2.5	AIR PRESSURE AT THE START OF PLAY
65 71-68.75 kilopascals, or 0.67-0.70 kilograms per square centimetre,
or 9.5-10 0 lbs per square inch
17
LAW 2 - THE BAlL
iRB 
LAW 3-NUMBER OF PLAYERS-THE TEAM iRB
2.6 SPARE BALLS
Spare balls may be available during a match, but a team must not gain
or attempt to gain an unfair advantage by using them or changing them
2.7 SMALLER BALLS
Balls of different sizes may be used for matches between young players
LAW 3 - NUMBER OF PLAYERS -THETEAM
DEFINITIONS
A Team. A team consists of fifteen players who start the match plus any
authorised replacements and/or substitutes.
Replacement. A player who replaces an injured team-mate.
Substitute. A player who replaces a team-mate for tactical reasons.
3.1	MAXIMUM NUMBER OF PLAYERS ON THE PLAYING AREA
Maximum: each team must have no more than fifteen players on the
playing area.
3.2	TEAM WITH MORE THAN THE PERMITTED NUMBER OF
PLAYERS
Objection: at any time before or during a match a team may make an
objection to the referee about the number of players in their opponents’
team. As soon as tne referee knows that a team has loo many players,
the referee must order the captain of that team to reduce the number
appropriately. The score at the time of the objection remains unaltered.
Penalty: Penalty at the place where the game would restart.
3.3	WHEN THERE ARE FEWER THAN FIFTEEN PLAYERS
A Union may authorise matches to be played with fewer than fifteen
players in each team. When that happens, all the Laws of the Game
apply except that each team must have at least five players in the scrum
at all times.
Exception: matches between teams of seven-a-side are an exception.
These matches are covered by the seven-a-side variations to the Laws
of the Game.
3.4	PLAYERS NOMINATED AS SUBSTITUTES
For international matches a Union may nominate up to seven
replacements/substitutes. For other matches, the Union with jurisdiction
over the match decides how many replacements/substitutes may be
nominated.
18
19
iRB
LAW 3 - NUMBER OF PLAYERS - THE TEAK
LAW 3 - NUMBER OF PLAYERS - THE TEAM
iRB
3.5	SUITABLY TRAINED AND EXPERIENCED PLAYERS IN THE
FRONT ROW
(a)	The table below indicates the numbers of suitably trained ana
experienced players for the front row when nominating different numbers
of players.
Number Qf flayers Number of Suitably Trained and Experienced
Players
15 or less 3 players who can play in the front row
16.17 or 18 4 players who can play in the front row
19. 20. 21 or 22 5 players who can play in the front row
(b)	Each player in the front row and any potential replacement(s) must be
suitably trained and experienced.
(c)	When 16, 17 or 18 players are nominated in a team there must be
sufficient front row players to play at hooker, tight-head prop and loose-
head prop who are suitably trained and experienced to ensure that on
the first occasion that a replacement in any front row position is required
the team can continue to play safely with contested scrums
(d)	When 19. 20. 21 or 22 players are nominated in a team there must be
sufficient front row players to play at hooker, tight-head prop and loose-
head prop who are suitably trained and experienced to ensure that on
both the first and second occasions that a replacement in any front row
position is required, the team can continue to play safely with contested
scrums
(e)	The replacement of a front row forward may come from suitably trained
and experienced players who started the match or from the nominated
replacements.
3.6	SENT OFF FOR FOUL PLAY
A player sent off for foul play must not be replaced
an exception to this Law, refer to Law 3.14
or substituted. For
permanent replacement
A player may be replaced if injured. If the player is permanently replaced.
that player must not return and play in that match. The replacement of the
injured player must be made when the ball is dead and with the
permission of the referee
THE DECISION FOR PERMANENT REPLACEMENT
When a national representative team is playing in a match, a player may
be replaced only when, in the opinion of a doctor, the player is so injured
that it would be unwise for that player to continue playing in that match.
In other matches, where a Union has given explicit permission, an injured
player may be replaced on the advice of a medically trained person If
none is present, that player may be replaced if the referee agrees
3.9	THE REFEREE’S POWER TO STOP AN INJURED PLAYER
FROM CONTINUING
If the referee decides - with or without the advice of a doctor or other
medically qualified person - that a player is so injured that the player
should stop playing, the referee may order that player to leave the playing
area. The referee may also order an injured player to leave the field in
order to be medically examined.
3.10	TEMPORARY REPLACEMENT
(a)	When a player leaves the field to have bleeding controlled and/or have
an open wound covered, that player may be temporarily replaced If the
player who has been temporarily replaced does not return to the field of
play within 15 minutes (actual time) of leaving the playing area, the
replacement becomes permanent and the replaced player must not
return to the field of play.
(b)	If the temporary replacement is injured, that player may also be replaced.
(c)	If the temporary replacement is sent off for foul play, the replaced player
may not return to the field of play.
20
?1
iRB
LAW 3 - NUMBER OF PLAYERS • THE TEAM
(d)	If a temporary replacement is cautioned and temporarily suspended, the
replaced player may not return to the field of play until after the period of
suspension.
3.11	PLAYER WISHING TO REJOIN THE MATCH
(a)	A player who has an open or bleeding wound must leave the playing
area The player must not return until the bleeding is controlled and the
wound has been covered.
(b)	A player who leaves a match because of injury or any other reason must
not rejoin the match until the referee permits the player to return. The
referee must not let a player rejoin a match until the ball is dead
(c)	If the player rejoins the match without the referee's permission, and the
referee believes the player did so to help that player's team or obstruct
the opposing team, the referee penalises the player for misconduct.
(d)	If the referee believes that this offence was not intentional interference
but the offending player's team gained an advantage from the return, the
referee orders a scrum where the player rejoined the match, and the
opposing team throws in the ball
3.12	NUMBER OF SUBSTITUTIONS
A team can substitute up to two front row players and up to five other
players. Substitutions may only be made when the ball is dead and with
the permission of the referee.
3.13	SUBSTITUTED PLAYERS REJOINING THE MATCH
If a player is substituted, that player must not return and play in that
match even to replace an injured player
Exception 1: a substituted player may replace a player with a bleeding
or open wound.
Exception 2: a substituted player may replace a front row player when
injured, temporarily suspended or sent off.
22
LAW 3 - NUMBER OF PLAYERS - THE TEAM
iRB
3.14	FRONT ROW FORWARD SENT OFF OR TEMPORARILY
SUSPENDED OR INJURED
(a)	After a front row player has been sent off or during the time a front row
player is temporarily suspended the referee, upon awarding the next
scrum, will ask that player’s captain whether or not the team has another
player on the field of play who is suitably trained to play in the front row.
If not, the captain chooses any player from that team who then must
leave the field of play and be replaced by a suitably trained front row
player from the team’s replacements The captain may do this
immediately prior to the next scrum or after another player has been tried
in the front row.
(b)	When a period of temporary suspension ends and a front row player
returns to the field of play, the replacement front row player leaves the
field of play and the nominated player who left the field of play for the
period of the suspension may resume playing in the match.
(c)	Furthermore, if, because of sending off or injury, a team cannot provide
enough suitably trained front row players, the match continues with
uncontested scrums
(d)	An uncontested scrum is the same as a normal scrum, except that the
teams do not compete for the ball, the team throwing in the ball must win
it, and neither team is allowed to push.
23
iRB
LAW 4 - PLAYERS' CLOTHING
LAW 4 - PLAYERS' CLOTHING
DEFINITION
Players' clothing is anything players wear.
A player wears a jersey, shorts and underwear, socks and boots
Detailed information relating to the permitted specifications for clothing and
studs maybe found in IRB Specifications (Regulation 12).
4.1	ADDITIONAL ITEMS OF CLOTHING
(a)	A player may wear supports made of elasticated or compressible
materials which must be washable.
(b)	A player may wear shin guards which conform with IRB Specifications
(Regulation 12)
(c)	A player may wear ankle supports worn under socks, not extending
higher than one third of the length of the shin and. if rigid, from material
other than metal
(d)	A player may wear mitts (fingerless gloves) which conform to IRB
Specifications (Regulation 12)
(e)	A player may wear shoulder pads which bear the IRB Approval Mark
(Regulation 12).
(I) A player may wear a mouth guard or dental protector
(g)	A player may wear headgear which bears the IRB Approval Mark
(Regulation 12)
(h)	A player may wear bandages and/or dressings to cover or protect any
injury
(i)	A player may wear thin tape or other similar material as support and/or
to prevent injury.
4.2	SPECIAL ADDITIONAL ITEMS FOR WOMEN
Besides the previous items, women may wear chest pads which bear the
IRB Approval Mark (Regulation 12).
24
LAW 4 - PLAYERS’ CLOTHING iRB
4.3	STUDS
(a)	Studs of players’ boots must conform with the IRB Specifications
(Regulation 12).
(b)	Moulded rubber multi-studded soles are acceptable provided they have
no sharp edges or ridges.
4.4	BANNED ITEMS OF CLOTHING
(a)	A player must not wear any item that is contaminated by blood
(b)	A player must not wear any item that is sharp or abrasive.
(c)	A player must not wear any items containing buckles, clips, rings, hinges.
zippers, screws, bolts or rigid material or projection not otherwise
permitted under this Law.
(d)	A player must not wear jewellery such as rings or earrings.
(e)	A player must not wear gloves.
(f)	A player must not wear shorts with padding sewn into them
(g)	A player must not wear any other item which does not conform with the
IRB Specifications for such clothing (Regulation 12).
(h)	A player must not wear any item that is normally permitted by Law, but,
in the referee’s opinion that is liable to cause injury to a player.
(i)	A player must not wear a single stud at the toe of the boot
(j)	A player must not wear communication devices within that player's
clothing or attached to the body
4.5	INSPECTION OF PLAYERS’ CLOTHING
(a)	The referee or the touch judges appointed by or under the authority of
the match organiser must inspect the players' clothing and studs for
conformity to this Law
iRB
LAW 4 - PLAYERS’ CLOTHING
LAW 5 - TIME
iRB
(b)
(c)
4.6
The referee has power to decide at any time, before or during the match,
that part of a player’s clothing is dangerous or illegal. If the referee
decides that clothing is dangerous or illegal the referee must order the
player to remove it. The player must not take part in the match until the
items of clothing are removed
If. at an inspection before the match, the referee or a touch judge tells a
player that an item banned under this Law is being worn, and the player
is subsequently found to be wearing that item on the playing area, that
player is sent off for misconduct.
Penalty: A penalty kick is awarded at the place where play is restarted.
WEARING OTHER CLOTHING
Any player requiring or wishing to wear any dressing, protection.
padding, support or such like material other than that specified within this
Law is not permitted to play in a match.
The referee must not allow any player to leave the playing area to change
hems of clothing, unless these are bloodstained.
LAW 5 -TIME
5.1	DURATION OF A MATCH
A match lasts no longer than eighty minutes plus time lost, extra time and
any special conditions. A match is divided into two halves each of not
more than forty minutes playing time
5.2	HALF-TIME
After half-time the teams change ends There is an interval of not more
than 10 minutes. The length of the interval is decided by the match
organiser, the Union or the recognised body which has jurisdiction over
the game. During the interval the teams, the referee and the touch judges
may leave the playing enclosure
5.3	TIME KEEPING
The referee keeps the time but may delegate the duty to either or both
the touch judges and/or the official time-keeper, in which case the referee
signals to them any stoppage of time or time lost In matches without an
official time-keeper, if the referee is in doubt as to the correct time the
referee consults either or both the touch iudges and may consult others
but only if the touch judges cannot help
5.4	TIME LOST
Time lost may be due to the following-
(a)	Injury. The referee may stop play for not more than one minute so that
an injured player can be treated, or for any other permitted delay.
The referee may allow play to continue while a medically trained person
treats an injured player in the playing area or the player may go to the
touch-line for treatment
If the referee believes that the player is feigning injury, the referee
arranges for the player to be removed from the playing area, and re-
starts play at once Alternatively, the referee may allow play to continue
while a medically trained person examines the player in the playing area
(b)	Replacing players' clothing. When the ball is dead, the referee allows
time for a player to replace or repair a badly torn jersey, shorts or boots.
Time is allowed for a player to re-tie a boot-lace
26
27
iRB
LAW 5-TIME
(c)	Replacement and substitution of players. Time is allowed when a
player is replaced or substituted
(d)	Reporting of foul play by a touch judge. Time is allowed when a touch
judge reports foul play.
5.5	MAKING UP FOR TIME LOST
Any playing time lost is made up in the same half of the match
5.6	PLAYING EXTRA TIME
A match may last more than eighty minutes if the Union has authorised
the playing of extra time in a drawn match in a knock-out competition.
5.7	OTHER TIME REGULATIONS
(a)	In international matches play always lasts eighty minutes plus lost time
(b)	In non-mternational matches a Union may decide the length of a match.
(c)	If the Union does not decide, the teams agree on the length of a match.
If they cannot agree, the referee decides
(d)	The referee has the power to end the match at any time, if the referee
believes that play should not continue because it would be dangerous.
(e)	If time expires and the ball is not dead, or an awarded scrum or line-out
has not been completed the referee allows play to continue until the next
time that the ball becomes dead If time expires and a mark, free kick or
penalty kick is then awarded, the referee allows play to continue
(I) If time expires after a try has been scored the referee allows time for the
conversion kick to be taken
(g) When weather conditions are exceptionally hot and/or humid, the
referee, at his discretion, will be permitted to allow one water break in
each half. This water break should be no longer than one minute. Time
lost should be added on at the end of each half. The water break should
normally be taken after a score or when the ball is out of play near the
half way line.
28
LAW 6 - MATCH OFFICIALS
iRB
LAW 6 - MATCH OFFICIALS
DEFINITIONS
Every match is under the control of Match Officials who consist of the Referee
and two Touch Judges. Additional persons, as authorised by the match
organisers may include the referee and/or reserve touch judge, an official to
assist the Referee in making decisions by using technological devices, the time
keeper, the Match Doctor, the team doctors, the non-playing members of the
teams and the ball persons.
6.A. REFEREE
BEFORE THE MATCH
6.A.1 APPOINTING THE REFEREE
The referee is appointed by the match organiser. If no referee has been
appointed the two teams may agree upon a referee If they cannot agree,
the home team appoints a referee
6.A.2 REPLACING THE REFEREE
If the referee is unable to complete the match, the referee's replacement
is appointed according to the instructions of the match organiser. If the
match organiser has given no instructions, the referee appoints the
replacement. If the referee cannot do so, the home team appoints a
replacement
6.A.3 DUTIES OFTHE REFEREE BEFORE THE MATCH
(a)	Toss. The referee organises the toss One of the captains tosses a coin
and the other captain calls to see who wins the toss. The winner of the
toss decides whether to kick-off or to choose an end. If the winner of the
toss decides to choose an end, the opponents must kick-off and vice
versa
(b)	Players’ clothing inspection. The referee must inspect the players’
clothing to ensure it is in compliance with Law 4. The referee may
delegate responsibility for the inspection of players clothing to the touch
judges.
29
iRB
LAW 6 - MATCH 0FACIALS
6.A.4 LIMITATION ON THE REFEREE
The referees must not give advice to either team before the match.
DURING THE MATCH
6.A.5 THE DUTIES OF THE REFEREE IN THE PLAYING
ENCLOSURE
(a)	The referee is the sole judge of fact and of Law during a match. The
referee must apply fairly all the Laws of the Game in every match
(b)	When the match organiser has authorised the application of an
experimental Law as approved by the IRB Council, the referee may appfj
these Laws in prescribed matches.
(c)	The referee keeps the time
(d)	The referee keeps the score.
(e)	The referee gives permission to the players to leave the playing area.
(f)	The referee gives permission to the replacements or substitutes to enter
the playing area.
(g)	The referee gives permission to the team doctors or medically traineo
persons or their assistants to enter the playing area, as and when
permitted by the Law.
(h)	The referee gives permission to each of the coaches to enter the playing
area at half time to attend their teams during the interval.
6.A.6 PLAYERS DISPUTING A REFEREE S DECISION
All players must respect the authority of the referee. They must not
dispute the referee's decisions They must stop playing at once when the
referee blows the whistle except at a kick-off.
Penalty; Penalty Kick at the place of infringement or where play would nen
commence.
30
LAW 6 - MATCH OFFICIALS
iRB
6.A.7 REFEREE ALTERING A DECISION
The referee may alter a decision when a touch judge has raised the flag
to signal touch or an act of foul play.
6.A.8 REFEREE CONSULTING WITH OTHERS
(a)	The referee may consult with touch judges in regard to matters relating
to their duties, the Law relating to foul play, or timekeeping
(b)	A match organiser may appoint an official who uses technological
devices. If the referee is unsure when making a decision in in-goal
involving a try being scored or a touch down, that official may be
consulted.
(c)	The official may be consulted if the referee is unsure when making a
decision in in-goal with regard to the scoring of a try or a touch down
when foul play in m-goal may have been involved.
(d)	The official may be consulted in relation to the success or otherwise of
kicks at goal
(e)	The official may be consulted if the referee or touch judge is unsure if a
player was or was not in touch when attempting to ground the ball to
score a try.
(f)	The official may be consulted if the referee or touch judges are unsure
when making a decision relating to touch-in-goal and the ball being made
dead if a score may have occurred.
(g)	A match organiser may appoint a timekeeper who will signify the end of
each half.
(h)	The referee must not consult witn any other persons.
6.A.9 THE REFEREE S WHISTLE
(a) The referee must carry a whistle and blow the whistle to indicate the
beginning and end of each half of the match.
(b)	The referee has power to stop play at any time.
(c)	The referee must blow the whistle to indicate a score, or a touch down.
31
iRB
LAW 6 - MATCH OFFICIALS
(d)	The referee must blow the whistle to stop play because of an
infringement or for an offence of foul play When the referee cautions or
sends off the offender, the referee must whistle a second time when the
penalty kick or penalty try is awarded
(e)	The referee must blow the whistle when the ball has gone out of play, or
when it has become unplayable, or when a penalty is awarded
(f)	The referee must blow the whistle when the ball or the ball-carrier
touches the referee and either team gains an advantage from this.
(g)	The referee must blow the whistle when it would be dangerous to let play
continue. This includes when a scrum collapses, or when a front row
player is lifted into the air or is forced upwards out of a scrum, or when it
is probable that a player has been seriously injured
(h)	The referee may blow the whistle to stop play for any other reason
according to the Laws.
6.A.10 THE REFEREE AND INJURY
(a) H a player is injured and continuation of play would be dangerous, the
referee must blow the whistle immediately.
(b) If the referee stops play because a player has been injured, and there
has been no infringement and the ball has not been made dead, play
restarts with a scrum. The team last in possession throws in the ball. H
neither team was in possession, the attacking team throws in the ball.
(c)	The referee must blow the whistle if continuation of play would be
dangerous for any reason.
6.A.11 THE BALL TOUCHING THE REFEREE
(a) If the ball or the ball-carrier touches the referee and neither team gams
an advantage, play continues.
(b) II either team gains an advantage in the field of play, the referee orders
a scrum and the team that last played the ball has the throw-in
(c)	If either team gains an advantage in in-goal, if the ball is in possession
of an attacking player the referee awards a try where the contact took
place.
(d)	If either team gains an advantage in in-goal. if the ball is in possession
of a defending player, the referee awards a touch down where the
contact took place
32
LAW 6 - MATCH OFFICIALS
iRB
6.A.12 THE BALL IN IN-GOAL TOUCHED BY NON-PLAYER
The referee judges what would have happened next and awards a try or
a touch down at the place where the ball was touched
AFTER THE MATCH
6.A.13 SCORE
The referee communicates the score to the teams and to the match
organiser.
6.A.14 PLAYER SENT-OFF
If a player is sent off the referee gives the match organiser a written
report on the foul play infringement as soon as possible.
6.B. TOUCH JUDGES
BEFORE THE MATCH
6.B.1 APPOINTING TOUCH JUDGES
There are two touch judges for every match Unless they have been
appointed by or under the authority of the match organiser, each team
provides a touch judge.
6.B.2 REPLACING A TOUCH JUDGE
The match organiser may nominate a person to act as a replacement for
the referee or the touch judges This person is called the reserve touch
judge and stands in the penmeter area
6.B.3 CONTROL OF TOUCH JUDGES
The referee has control over both touch judges. The referee may tell
them what their duties are, and may overrule their decisions. If a touch
judge is unsatisfactory the referee may ask that the touch juage be
replaced. If the referee believes a touch judge is guilty of misconduct, the
referee has power to send the touch judge off and make a report to the
match organiser.
33
■RB
LAW 6 - MATCH OFFICIALS
DURING THE MATCH
6.B.4 WHERE THE TOUCH JUDGES SHOULD BE
(a) There is one touch judge on each side of the ground. The touch judge
remains in touch except when judging a kick at goal When judging a kick
at goal the touch judges stand in m-goal behind the goal posts.
(b) A touch judge may enter the playing area when reporting an offence of
dangerous play or misconduct to the referee The touch judge may do
this only at the next stoppage in play.
6.B.5 TOUCH JUDGE SIGNALS
(a) Each touch judge carries a flag or something similar with which to signal
decisions.
(b) Signalling result of kick at goal. When a conversion kick or a penalty
kick at goal is being taken, the touch judges must help the referee by
signalling the result of tne kick. One touch judge stands at or behind
each goal post. If the ball goes over the cross-bar and between the
posts, the touch judge raises the flag to indicate a goal
(c)	Signalling touch. When the ball or the ball-carrier has gone into touch,
the touch judge must hold up the flag The touch judge must stand at the
place of me throw-in and point to the team entitled to throw in. The touch
judge must also signal when the ball or the ball-earner has gone into
touch-in-goal.
(d)	When to lower the flag. When the ball is thrown in, the touch judge
must lower the flag, with the following exceptions.
Kick at goal successful
34
LAW 6 - MATCH OFFICIALS
iRB
Exception 1: When the player throwing in puts any part of either foot in
the field of play, the touch judge keeps the flag up
Exception 2: When the team not entitled to throw-in has done so, the
touch judge keeps the flag up.
Signalling touch and team to throw-in
Exception 3: When, at a quick throw-in, the ball that went into touch is
replaced by another ball, or after it went into touch or it has been touched
by anyone except the player who takes the throw-in, the touch judge
keeps the flag up.
(e)	It is for the referee, and not the touch judge, to decide whether or not the
ball was thrown in from the correct place
(f)	Signalling foul play. A touch judge signals that foul play or misconduct
has been seen by holding the flag horizontally and pointing infield at
right angles to the touch-line.
35
B
LAW 6 - MATCH OFFICIAI
6.B.6 AFTER SIGNALLING FOUL PLAY
Signalling foul play
A match organiser may give authority to the touch judge to signal for foul
play. If a touch judge signals foul play, the touch judge must stay in touch
and continue to carry out all the other duties until the next stoppage in
play. The touch judge may then enter the playing area to report the
offence to the referee The referee may then take whatever action is
needed. Any penalty awarded will be in accordance with Law 10 - Foul
Play
AFTER THE MATCH
6.B.7 PLAYER SENT-OFF
If a player has been sent-off following a touch judge’s signal, the touch
judge submits a written report about the incident to the referee as soon
as possible after the match and provides it to the match organiser.
"•-^FDDITIONAL PERSONS
^^ESERVE TOUCH JUDGE
VWhen a reserve touch judge is appointed, the referee’s authority
i regarding replacements and substitutions may be delegated to the
reserve touch judge
THOSE WHO MAY ENTER THE PLAYING AREA
The match doctor and the non-playing members of the team may enter
the playing area as authorised by the referee.
^3. LIMITS TO ENTERING THE PLAYING AREA
In the case of injury, these persons may enter the playing area while play
continues, provided they have permission from the referee Otherwise,
they enter only when the ball is dead
37
iRB
DURING THE MATCH - METHOD OF PLAYING THE MATCH
iRB
IMYIRHADONJU RUGBY 10 ARD
DURING THE MATCH
Method of Playing the Match
Law
Law
Law
Law 10
Law 11
Law 12
7
8
9
Mode of Play
Advantage
Method of Scoring
Foul Play
Off-side and On-side in General Play
Knock-on or Throw-forward
38
LAW 7 - MODE OF PLAY
iRB
LAW 7 - MODE OF PLAY
PLAYING A MATCH
A match is started by a kick-off
After the kick-off, any player who is on side may take the ball and run with it
Any player may throw it or kick it.
Any player may give the ball to another player.
Any player may tackle, hold or push an opponent holding the ball
Any player may fall on the ball.
Any player may take part in a scrum, ruck, maul or line-out.
Any player may ground the ball in in-goal.
Whatever a player does must be in accordance with the Laws of the Game
39
iRB
LAW 8 - ADVANTAGE
LAW 8 - ADVANTAGE
DEFINITION
The Law of advantage lakes precedence over most other Laws and its purpose
is to make play more continuous with fewer stoppages for infringements.
Players are encouraged to play to the whistle despite infringements by their
opponents. When the result of an infringement by one team is that their
opposing team may gam an advantage, the referee does not whistle
immediately for the infringement.
8.1	ADVANTAGE IN PRACTICE
(a)	The referee is sole judge of whether or not a team has gained an
advantage. The referee has wide discretion when making decisions
(b)	Advantage can be either territorial or tactical.
(c)	Territorial advantage means a gain in ground
(d)	Tactical advantage means freedom for the non-offending team to play the
ball as they wish.
8.2	WHEN ADVANTAGE DOES NOT ARISE
The advantage must be clear and real. A mere opportunity to gain
advantage is not enough II the non-offending team does not gain an
advantage, the referee blows the whistle and brings play back to the
place of infringement.
8.3	WHEN THE ADVANTAGE LAW IS NOT APPLIED
(a)	Referee contact. Advantage must not be applied when the ball, or a
player carrying it, touches the referee.
(b)	Ball out of tunnel. Advantage must not be applied when the ball comes
out of either end of the tunnel at a scrum without having been played.
(c)	Wheeled scrum. Advantage must not be applied when the scrum is
wheeled through more than 90 degrees (so that the middle line has
passed beyond a position parallel to the touch-line).
40
LAAW 8 - ADVANTAGE
iJRB
(«d) Collapsed scrum. Advantage must not be applied when a scrum
collapses. The referee must blow the whistle immediately.
0(e) Player lifted in the air. Advantage must not be applied when a player
in a scrum is lifted in the air or forced upwards out of the scrum The
referee must blow the whistle immediately.
8.4	IMMEDIATE WHISTLE WHEN NO ADVANTAGE
The referee blows the whistle immediately once the referee decides an
advantage cannot be gained by the non-offending team.
8.5	MORETHAN ONE INFRINGEMENT
(a)	If there is more than one infringement by the same team the referee
applies the advantage Law.
(b)	If advantage is being played following an infringement by one team and
then the other team commit an infringement, the referee blows the
whistle and applies the sanctions associated with the first infringement.
iRB
LAW 9 - METHOD OF SCORING
LAW 9 - METHOD OF SCORING
9.A.
9.A.1
SCORING POINTS
POINTS VALUES
Try. When an attacking player is first to ground the
ball in the opponents’ in-goal, a try is scored.
Penalty Try. If a player would prooably have scored
a try but for foul play by an opponent, a penalty try
is awarded between the goal posts.
Conversion Goal. When a player scores a try it
gives the player’s team the right to attempt to score
a goal by taking a kick at goal; this also applies to a
penalty try. This kick is a conversion kick: a
conversion kick can be a place kick or a drop-kick.
Penalty Goal. A player scores a penalty goal by
kicking a goal from a penalty kick.
Dropped Goal. A player scores a dropped goal by
kicking a goal from a drop-kick in general play The
team awarded a free kick cannot score a dropped
goal until the ball next becomes dead, or until an
opponent has played or touched it, or has tackled
the ball-carrier. This restriction applies also to a
scrum taken instead of a free kick
Value
5 points
5 points
2 points
3 points
3 points
LAW 9 - METHOD OF SCORING
iRB
9.A.2. KICK AT GOAL - SPECIAL CIRCUMSTANCES
(a)	If after the ball is kicked, it touches the ground or any team-mate of the
kicker, a goal cannot be scored
(b)	If the ball has crossed the cross bar a goal is scored, even if the wind
blows it back into the field of play.
(c)	If an opponent commits an offence as the kick at goal is being taken, but
neverthless the kick is successful, advantage is played and the score
stands.
(d)	Any player who touches the ball in an attempt to prevent a penalty goal
being scored is illegally touching the ball.
Penalty Penalty Kick
9.B CONVERSION KICK
DEFINITION
When a player scores a try. it gives the player’s team the right to try to score a
goal by taking a kick at goal, this also applies to a penalty try. This Kick is a
conversion kick. A conversion kick can be a place kick or a drop-kick.
9.B.1 TAKING A CONVERSION KICK
(a)	The kicker must use the ball that was in play unless it is defective.
(b)	The kick is taken on a line through the place where the try was scored.
(c)	A placer is a team-mate who holds the ball for the kicker to kick
(d)	The kicker may place the ball directly on the ground or on sand, sawdust
or a kicking tee approved by the Union
(e> The kicker must take the kick within one minute from the time the kicker
has indicated an intention to kick The intention to kick is signalled by the
arrival of the kicking tee or sand, or the player makes a mark on the
ground. The player must complete the kick within the minute even if the
ball rolls over and has to be placed again.
Penalty: The kick is disallowed if the kicker does not take the kick within
the time allowed
43
iRB
LAW 9 - METHOD OF SCORING
9.B.2 THE KICKER’S TEAM
(a)	All the kicker’s team, except the placer, must be behind the ball when rt
is kicked.
(b)	Neither the kicker nor a placer must do anything to mislead their
opponents into charging too soon.
(c)	II the ball falls over before the kicker begins the approach to kick, the
referee permits the kicker to replace it without excessive delay. Whiie
the ball is replaced, the opponents must stay behind their goal-line.
If the ball falls over after the kicker begins the approach to kick, the kicker
may then kick or attempt a dropped goal.
If the ball falls over and rolls away from the line through the place where
the try was scored, and the kicker then kicks the ball over the cross bar,
a goal is scored.
If the ball falls over and rolls into touch after the kicker begins the
approach to kick, the kick is disallowed
Penalty: (a)-(c) If the kicker’s team infringes, the kick is disallowed.
9.B.3 THE OPPOSING TEAM
(a)	All players of the opposing team must retire to their goal-line and must
not overstep that line until the kicker begins the approach to kick or starts
to kick. When the kicker does this, they may charge or jump to prevent a
goal but must not be physically supported by other players in these
actions
(b)	When the ball falls over after the kicker began the approach to kick, the
opponents may continue to charge
(c)	A defending team must not shout during a kick at goal.
Penalty (a)-(c) If the opposing team infringes but the kick is successful.
the goal stands.
II the kick is unsuccessful, the kicker may take another kick and the
opposing team is not allowed to charge
When another kick is allowed, the kicker may repeat all the preparations.
The kicker may change the type of kick
44
LAW 10 - FOUL PLAY
iRB
LAW 10- FOUL PLAY
DEFINITION
Foul play is anything a person does within the playing enclosure that is against
the letter and spirit of the Laws of the Game It includes obstruction, unfair play,
repeated infringements, dangerous play and misconduct.
10.1	OBSTRUCTION
(a)	Charging or pushing. When a player and an opponent are running for the
ball, either player must not charge or push the other except shoulderto-
shoulder.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(b)	Running in front of a ball-carrier. A player must not intentionally move
or stand in front of a team mate carrying the ball thereby preventing
opponents from tackling the current ball-earner or the opportunity to
tackle potential ball-carriers when they gain possession.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(c)	Blocking the tackler. A player must not intentionally move or stand in a
position that prevents an opponent from tackling a ball-carrier
Penalty: Penally Kick
(d)	Blocking the ball. A player must not intentionally move or stand in a
position that prevents an opponent from playing the ball.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(e)	Ball-carrier running Into team-mate at a set-piece. A player carrying
the ball after it has left a scrum, ruck, maul or line-out must not run into
team-mates in front of the player.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(f)	Flanker obstructing opposing scrum-half. A flanker in a scrum must
not prevent an opposing scrum-half from advancing around the scrum.
Penalty. Penalty Kick
(g)	A player carrying the ball cannot be penalised for obstruction under any
circumstances.
45
iRB
LAW 10 - FOUL PLAV
10.2	UNFAIR PLAY
(a)	Intentionally Offending. A player must not intentionally infringe any
Law of the Game, or play unfairly
Penalty: Penalty Kick
A penalty try must be awarded il the offence prevents a try that would
probably otherwise have been scored. The player who intentionally
offends must be either admonished, or cautioned that a send off w3
result if the offence or a similar offence is committed, or sent-off. After a
caution a player is temporarily suspended from the match for a period of
ten minutes playing time After a caution, if the player commits the same
or similar offence, the player must be sent-off.
(b)	Time-wasting. A player must not intentionally waste time
Penalty: Free Kick
(c)	Throwing into touch etc. A player must not intentionally knock or throw
the ball out of the playing area.
Penalty: Penalty Kick on the 15-melre line if the offence is between the
15-metre line and the touch-line. or. at the place of infringement if the
offence occured elsewhere in the field of play, or, 5 metres from the goal-
line and al least 15 metres from the touch-line if the infringement occured
in in-goal.
A penalty try must be awarded if the offence prevents a try that wou'd
probably otherwise have been scored.
10.3	REPEATED INFRINGEMENTS
(a)	Repeatedly offending. A player must not repeatedly infringe any Law.
Repeated infringement is a matter of fact. The question of whether or not
the player intended to infringe is irrelevant
Penalty: Penalty Kick
If necessary, the player is cautioned. If the player repeats the offence, the
player must be sent-off.
(b)	Repeated Infringements. The problem of repeated infringements
usually arises with the scrum, line-out. off-side, ruck, maul or tackle
Laws. A player penalised for several infringements of any Law is
cautioned and temporarily suspended from the match for a period of 10
minutes playing time. If the player repeats the offence, the player is sent-
off.
46
LAW 10- FOUL PLAY
iRB
(c)	Repeated infringements by the team. When different players of the
same team repeatedly commit the same offence, the referee must decide
whether or not this amounts to repeated infringement. If it does, the
referee gives a general warning to the team and if they then repeat the
offence, the referee cautions and temporarily suspends the guilty
player(s) for a period of 10 minutes playing time. If a player of that same
team then repeats the offence the referee sends off the guilty player(s).
Penalty: Penalty Kick
A penalty try must be awarded if the offence prevents a try that would
probably otherwise have been scored
(d)	Repeated Infringements: standard applied by referee. When the
referee decides how many offences constitute repeated infringement, the
referee must always apply a strict standard in representative and senior
matches. When a player offends three times the referee must caution
that player.
The referee may relax this standard in junior or minor matches, where
infringements may be the result of poor knowledge of the Laws or lack of
skill.
10.4	DANGEROUS PLAY AND MISCONDUCT
(a)	Punching or striking. A player must not strike an opponent with the fist
or arm, including the elbow, shoulder, head or knee(s).
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(b)	Stamping or trampling. A player must not stamp or trample on an
opponent.
Penalty. Penalty Kick
(c)	Kicking. A player must not kick an opponent
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(d)	Tripping. A player must not trip an opponent with the leg or foot.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
47
>RB
LAW 10 - FOUL PUy
LAW 10-FOUL PLAY
iRB
(e)	Dangerous tackling. A player must not tackle an opponent early, late or
dangerously
Penalty: Penalty Kick
A player must not tackle (or try to tackle) an opponent above the line ol
the shoulders. A tackle around the opponent’s neck or head is
dangerous play
Penalty: Penalty Kick
A ‘stiff-arm tackle’ is dangerous play. A player makes a stiff-arm tackle
when using a stiff-arm to strike an opponent
Penalty: Penalty Kick
Playing a player without the ball is dangerous play.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
The referee decides whether or not a tackle is dangerous. The referee
takes into account the circumstances, such as the apparent intentions of
the tackler, or the nature of the tackle, or the defenceless position of the
player being tackled or knocked over Any of these may result in serious
injury.
All forms of dangerous tackling must be punished severely. A player who
commits this type of foul must be sent-off Advantage may be played, but
if the offence prevents a probable try, a penalty try must be awarded
A player must not tackle an opponent whose feet are off the ground
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(f)	Playing an opponent without the ball. Except in a scrum, ruck or maul,
a player must not hold, or push, or charge into, or obstruct an opponent
not carrying the ball.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(g)	Dangerous charging. A player must not charge or knock down an
opponent carrying the ball without trying to grasp that player
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(h)	Tackling the jumper In the air. A player must not tackle nor tap, push
or pull the foot or feet of an opponent jumping for the ball in a line-out or
in open play.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
i) Dangerous play in a scrum, ruck or maul The front row of a scrum
must not rush against its opponents.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
Front row players must not intentionally lift opponents off their feet or
force them upwards out of the scrum
Penalty: Penalty Kick
Players must not charge into a ruck or maul without binding onto a player
in the ruck or maul.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
Players must not intentionally collapse a scrum, ruck or maul
Penally: Penalty Kick
(j)	Retaliation. A player must not retaliate Even if an opponent is
infringing the Laws, a player must not do anything that is dangerous to
the opponent
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(k)	Acts contrary to good sportsmanship. A player must not do anything
that is against the spirit of good sportsmanship in the playing enclosure
Penalty: Penalty Kick
The player who commits an act of dangerous play or misconduct must
either be admonished, or cautioned that a send off will result if the
offence or a similar offence is committed, or sent-off After a caution a
player is temporarily suspended from the match for a period of ten
minutes playing time After a caution if the player commits the same or
similar offence, the player must be sent-off
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(I)	Misconduct while the ball is out of play. A player, must not. while the
ball is out of play, commit any misconduct, or obstruct or in any way
interfere with an opponent.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
The penalty is the same as for sections 10.4 (a)-(k) except that the
penalty kick is awarded at the place where play would restart If that
place is on the touch-line or within 15 metres of it. the mark for the
penalty kick is on the 15-metre line, in line with that place
If play would restart at a 5-metre scrum, the mark for the penalty kick is
at that place at least 15 metres from the touch-line
48
49
iRB
LAW 10- FOUL PLAY
If play would restart with a drop-out, the non-offending team may choose
to take the penalty kick anywhere on the 22-metre line
If a penalty kick is awarded but the offending team is guilty of further
misconduct before the kick is taken, the referee cautions or orders off the
guilty player and advances the mark for the penalty kick 10 metres. This
covers both the original offence and the misconduct
If a penalty kick is awarded to a team but a player of that team is guilty
of further misconduct before the kick is taken, the referee will caution or
send-off the guilty player, declare the kick disallowed, and award a
penalty kick to the opposing team.
If an offence is committed outside the playing area while the ball is still in
play, and if that offence is not covered by any other part of this Law, the
penalty kick ts awarded on the 15-metre line, in line with where the
offence happened.
For an offence reported by a touch judge a penalty kick may be awarded
where the offence happened, or advantage may be played
(m) Late-charging the kicker A player must not intentionally charge or
obstruct an opponent who has just kicked the ball.
Penalty: The non-offending team may choose to take the penalty kicx
either at the place of infringement, where the ball lands, or where it was
next played.
Place of infringement. If the infringement happens in the kicker’s
in-goal, the mark for the penalty kick is 5 metres from the goal-line and
15 metres in from the touch-line, unless the non-offending team choose
to take the penalty kick where the ball lands or where it was next played.
If the infringement happens in touch, the mark for the penalty kick is on
the 15-melre line in line with the place of the actual infringement
If the infringement happens in touch-m-goal, the mark for the penalty kick
is 5 metres from the goal-line and 15 metres from the touch-line.
Where the ball lands. If the ball lands in touch, the mark for the optional
penalty kick is on the 15-metre line, in line with where it went into touch.
If the ball lands within 15 metres of the touch-line, the mark is on the
15-metre line opposite where it landed.
50
LAW 10 • FOUL PLAY
iRB
If the ball lands in the in-goal, in touch-in-goal, or on or over the dead ball
line, the mark for the optional penalty kick is 5 metres from the goal line,
in line with the place where the ball crossed the goal-line and at least 15
metres from the touch-line.
If the ball hits a goal post or crossbar, the optional penalty kick is
awarded where the ball lands on the ground
LATE CHARGING THE KICKER
(n) Flying Wedge and Cavalry Charge. A team must not use the ’Flying
Wedge' or the ’Cavalry Charge’.
Penalty: Penalty Kick at the place of the original infringement
‘Flying Wedge’ The type of attack known as a 'Flying Wedge’ usually
happens near the goal-line, when the attacking team is awarded a
penalty kick or free kick.
The kicker tap-kicks the ball and starts the attack, either by driving
towards the goal-line or by passing to a team-mate who drives forward
Immediately, team-mates bind on each side of the ball-carrier in a wedge
formation. Often one or more of these team-mates is in front of the ball-
carrier A ’Flying Wedge' is illegal.
Penalty: Penalty Kick at the place of the original infringement.
51
iRB
LAW 10 - FOUL PLAY
‘Cavalry Charge’. The type of attack known as a ‘Cavalry Charge’
usually happens near the goal-line, when the attacking team is awarded
a penalty kick or free kick Attacking players form a line across the field
some distance behind the kicker
These attacking players are usually a metre or two apart At a signal
from the kicker they charge forward When they get near, the kicker tap-
kicks the ball and passes it to one of them.
Until the ball is kicked, the defending team must stay at least 10 metres
from the mark or behind their goal-line, if that is nearer. A ‘Cavalry
Charge* is illegal.
Penalty: Penalty Kick at the place of the original infringement.
10.5	SANCTIONS
(a)	Any player who infringes any part of the Foul Play Lav/ must be
admonished, or cautioned and temporarily suspended, or sent-off.
(b)	A player who has been cautioned and temporarily suspended who then
commits a second cautionable offence within the Foul Play Law must be
sent-off.
10.6	YELLOW AND RED CARDS
(a)	When a player has been cautioned and temporarily suspended in an
International match the referee will show that player a yellow card
(b)	When a player has been sent off in an International match, the referee
will show that player a red card.
(c)	For other matches the Match Organiser or Union having jurisdiction over
the match may decide upon the use of yellow and red cards.
10.7	PLAYER SENT OFF
A player who is sent-off takes no further part in the match.
52
LAW 11 - OFF-SIDE AND ON-SIDE IN GENERAL PLAY
1RB
LAW 11 - OFF-SIDE AND ON-SIDE IN GENERAL
PLAY
DEFINITION
At the start of a game all players are on-side As the match progresses players
may find themselves in an off-side position. Such players are then liable to be
penalized until they become on-side again.
In general play a player is off-side if the player is in front of a team-mate who is
carrying the ball, or in front of a team-mate who last played the ball.
Off-side means that a player is temporarily out of the game Such players are
liable to be penalized if they take part in the game
In general play, a player can be put on side either by an action of a team-mate
or by an action of an opponent. However, the off-side player cannot be put on-
side if the off-side player interferes with play, or moves forward, towards the ball.
or fails to move 10 metres away from the place where the ball lands.
11.1	OFF-SIDE IN GENERAL PLAY
(a)	A player who is in an off-side position is liable to penalty only if the player
does one of three things-
Interferes with play or,
Moves forward, towards the ball or
Fails to comply with the 10-Metre Law (Law 11.4).
A player who is in an off-side position is not automatically penalised
A player who receives an intentional throw-forward is not off-side.
A player can be off-side in the in-goal.
(b)	Off-side and interfering with play. A player who is off-side must not
take part in the game This means the player must not play the ball or
obstruct an opponent.
(c)	Off-side and moving forward. When a team-mate of an off-side player
has kicked ahead, the off-side player must not move towards opponents
who are waiting to play the ball, or move towards the place where the ball
lands, until the player has been put on-side.
53
iRB
LAW 11 - OFF-SIDE AND ON-SIDE IN GENERAL PLAY
11.2	BEING PUT ON-SIDE BY THE ACTION OF A TEAM-MATE
In general play, there are four ways by which an off-side player can be
put on-side by actions of that player or of team-males.
(a)	Action by the player. When the off-side player runs behind the
team-mate who last kicked, touched or carried the ball, the player is put
on-side.
(b)	Action by the ball-carrier. When a team-mate carrying the ball runs in
front of the off-side player, that player is put on-side
(c)	Action by the kicker or other on-side player. When the kicker, or team-
mate who was level with or behind the kicker when (or after) the ball was
kicked, runs in front of the off-side player, the player is put on side
(d)	When running forward, the team-mate may be in touch or in touch-in-
goal. but that team-mate must return to the playing area to put the other
player on-side.
HLATtKMHUt UIV'DIUt 07 ItHM’MHIt
2.
OFF-SIDE
PLAYER RUNS
BEHIND BALL
CARRIER
TEAM-MATE
WTTHBALL
RUNSAHEAD
TEAMMATE KICKS,
RUNSAHEAD,
ORANOTHER
ON-STDE
TEAMMATE
RUNSAHEAD
PLAYER MADE ON-SIDE BY TEAM-MATE
54
LAW 11 - OFF-SIDE AND ON-SIDE IN GENERAL PLAY
■RB
11.3	BEING PUT ON-SIDE BY OPPONENTS
In general play, there are three ways by which an off side player can be
put on-side by an action of the opposing team These Ihree ways do not
apply to a player who is offside under the 10-Melre Law
(a) Runs 5 metres with ball. When an opponent carrying the ball runs 5
metres, the off-side player is put on side.
(b) Kicks or passes. When an opponent kicks or passes the ball, the off-
side player is put on-side.
(c)	Intentionally touches ball. When an opponent intentionally touches the
ball but does not catch it. the off-side player is put on-side.
PLAYER PUT ON-SIDE BY OPPONENTS
11.4	OFF-SIDE UNDER THE 10-METRE LAW
(a) When a team-mate of an off-side player has kicked ahead, the off-side
player is considered to be taking part in the game if the player is in front
of an imaginary line across the field which is 10 metres from the
opponent waiting to play the ball, or from where the ball lands or may
land. The off-side player must immediately move behind the imaginary
10-metre line While moving away, the player must not obstruct an
opponent
Penalty: Penalty Kick
55
iRB
LAW 11 - OFF-SIDE AND ON SIDE IN GENERAL PLAT
(b) While moving away, the off-side player cannot be put on-side by any
action of the opposing team However, before the player has moved the
full 10 metres, the player can be put on-side by any on-side team-mate
who runs in front of the player.
(c)	When a player who is off-side under the 10-Metre Lav/ charges an
opponent waiting to catch the ball, the referee blows the whistle at once
and the off-side player is penalised Delay may prove dangerous to the
opponent
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(d)	When a player who is off-side under the 10-Metre Law plays the bal
which has been misfielded by an opponent, the off-side player is
penalised
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(e)	The 10-Metre Law is not altered by the fact that the ball has hit a goal
post or a crossbar What matters is where the ball lands. An off-side
player must not be in front of the imaginary 10-metre line across the field.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(I) The 10-Metre Law does not apply when a player kicks the ball, and an
opponent charges down the kick, and a team-mate of the kicker who was
in front of the imaginary 10-metre line across the field then plays the ban.
The opponent was not “waiting to play the ball' and the team-mate is on-
side
Penalty: When a player is penalised for being off-side in general play
the opposing team chooses either a penalty kick at the place of
infringement or a scrum at the place where the offending team last
played the ball. II it was last played in that team's in-goal, the scrum is
formed 5 metres from the goal-line in line with where it was played.
(g) If more than one player is off-side and moving forward after a team mate
has kicked ahead, the place of infringement is the position of the off-side
player closest to an opponent waiting for the ball, or closest to where the
ball lands.
11.5	BEING PUT ON-SIDE UNDER THE 10-METRE LAW
(a)	The off-side player must retire behind the imaginary 10-metre line across
the field, otherwise the player is liable to be penalised.
56
LAW 11 - OFF-SIDE AND ON SIDE IN GENERAL PLAY
iRB
(b)	While retiring, the player can be put on-side before moving behind the
imaginary 10-metre line by any of the three actions of the player’s team
listed above in 11.2 However, the player cannot be put on-side by any
action of the opposing team.
11.6	ACCIDENTAL OFF-SIDE
(a) When an off-side player cannot avoid being touched by the ball or by a
team-mate carrying it. the player is accidentally off-side. If the player s
team gains no advantage from this, play continues. If the player’s team
gains an advantage, a scrum is formed with the opposing team throwing
in the ball.
(b) When a player hands the ball to a team-mate in front of the first player,
the receiver is ofl-side. Unless the receiver is considered to be
intentionally off-side (in which case a penalty kick is awarded), the
receiver is accidentally off-side and a scrum is formed with the opposing
team throwing in the ball.
11.7	OFF-SIDE AFTER A KNOCK-ON
When a player knocks-on and an off-side team-mate next plays the ball.
the off-side player is liable to penalty if playing the ball prevented an
opponent from gaining an advantage.
Penalty. Penalty Kick
11.8	OFF-SIDE AT SCRUM, RUCK, MAUL OR LINE-OUT
At a scrum, ruck, maul or line-out, a player is off-side if the player is in
front of the off-side line as described in the relevant parts of those Laws
11.9	PUTTING ON-SIDE A PLAYER RETIRING DURING A RUCK,
MAUL, SCRUM OR LINE-OUT
When a ruck, maul, scrum or line-out forms, a player who is off-side and
is retiring as required by Law remains off-side even when the opposing
team wins possession and the ruck, maul, scrum or line-out has ended.
The player is put on-side by retiring behind the applicable off side line
No other action of the off-side player and no action of that player's team-
mates can put the off-side player on-side
If the player remains off-side the player can be put on-side only by the
action of the opposing team There are two such actions-
57
iRB
LAW 11 - OFF-SIDE AND ON-SIDE IN GENERAL PLAY
Opponent runs 5 meters with ball. When an opponent carrying the ba’
has run 5 meters, the off-side player is put on-side. An off-side player is
not put on-side when an opponent passes the ball. Even if the opponents
pass the ball several times, their action does not put the off-side player
on-side
Opponent kicks. When an opponent kicks the ball, the off-side player is
put on-side.
11.10	LOITERING
A player who remains >n an off-side position is loitering A loiterer who
prevents the opposing team from playing the ball as they wish is taking
part in the game, and is penalised The referee makes sure that the
loiterer does not benefit from being put on-side by the opposing team's
action.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
58
LAW 12 • KNOCK-ON OR THROW-FORWARD
iRB
LAW 12 - KNOCK-ON OR THROW-FORWARD
DEFINITION - KNOCK-ON
A knock-on occurs when a player loses possession of the ball and it goes
forward, or when a player hits the ball forward with the hand or arm, or when
the ball hits the hand or arm and goes forward, and the ball touches the ground
or another player before the original player can catch it.
Forward' means towards the opposing team's dead ball line.
EXCEPTION
Charge down. If a player charges down the ball as an opponent kicks it. or
immediately after the kick, it is not a knock-on even though the ball may travel
forward
KNOCK-ON
59
iRB
LAW 12 - KNOCK-ON OR THROW FORWARD
DEFINITION - THROW-FORWARD
A throw-forward occurs when a player throws or passes the ball forward.
Forward means towards the opposing team’s dead ball line.
EXCEPTION
Bounce forward. If the ball is not thrown forward but it hits a player or the
ground and bounces forward, this is not a throw-forward.
CHARGE DOWN
60
LAW 12 - KNOCK-ON OR THROW-FORWARD
iRB
12.1	THE OUTCOME OF A KNOCK-ON OR THROW-FORWARD
(a)	Unintentional knock-on or throw-forward. A scrum is awarded at the
place of infringement
(b)	Unintentional knock-on or throw-forward at a line-out. A scrum is
awarded 15 metres from the touch-line.
(c)	Knock-on or throw-forward into the In-goal. If an attacking player
knocks-on or throws-forward in the field of play and the ball goes into the
opponents' in-goal and it is made dead there, a scrum is awaraed where
the knock-on or throw-forward happened
(d)	Knock-on or throw-forward inside the In-goal. If a player of either
team knocks-on or throws-forward inside the in goal, a 5-metre scrum is
awarded in line with the place of infringement not closer than 5 metres
from the touch-line.
(e)	Intentional knock or throw-forward. A player must not intentionally
knock the ball forward with hand or arm. nor throw-forward.
Penalty: Penalty Kick A penalty fry must be awarded if the offence
prevents a try that would probably otherwise have been scored
(f)	If the ball goes forward as in a knock-on while a player attempts to catch
the ball and that player catches the ball before it has touched the ground
or another player, play continues.
61
iRB
DURING THE MATCH - IN THE FIELD OF PL*f
iRB
DURING THE MATCH
In the Field of Play
Law 13 Kick-off and Restart Kicks
Law 14 Ball on the Ground: No Tackle
Law 15 Tackle: Ball-carrier Brought to Ground
Law 16 Ruck
Law 17 Maul
Law 18 Mark
62
LAW 13 - KICK-OFF AND RESTART KICKS
iRB
LAW 13 - KICK-OFF AND RESTART KICKS
DEFINITION
The kick-off occurs at the start of the match and the restart of the match after
half-time. Restart kicks occur after a score or a touch down.
13.1	WHERE THE KICK-OFF IS TAKEN
The kick-off is taken at the middle or behind the middle of the half-way
line If tho ball is kicked from the wrong place it is kicked off again.
13.2	HOW A KICK-OFF OR RESTART IS TAKEN
(a)	A kick-off or restart is taken with a drop-kick
(b)	If the ball is kicked off by the wrong type of kick, it is kicked off again.
13.3	WHO TAKES THE KICK-OFF AND RESTART KICK
(a)	At the start of the game, the team whose captain elected to take the kick
after winning the toss will kick-off, or the opposing team if the winning
captain elected to choose an end.
(b)	After the half-time interval, the opponents of the team who kicked off at
the start of the game kick-off.
(c)	After a score the opponents of the team who scored restart play.
13.4	POSITION OF THE KICKER’S TEAM AT A KICK-OFF
All the kicker's team, except the placer, must be behind the ball when it
is kicked. If they are not, a scrum is formed at the centre. Their
opponents throw-in the ball
63
iRB
LAW 13 - KICK-OFF AND RESTART KICKS
13.5	POSITION OF THE OPPOSING TEAM AT A KICK-OFF
All the opposing team must stand on or behind the 10-metre line. II the/
are in front of that line or if they charge before the ball is kicked, it is
kicked off again.
13.6	KICK-OFF OF 10 METRES
If the ball reaches the opponents' 10-metre line or reaches the 10-metre
line and is blown back, play continues.
13.7	KICK-OFF OF UNDER 10 METRES BUT PLAYED BY AN
OPPONENT
If the ball does not reach the opponent’s 10-metre line but is first played
by an opponent, play continues
13.8	KICK-OFF OF UNDER 10 METRES AND NOT PLAYED BY AN
OPPONENT
If the ball does not reach the opponent's 10-metre line the opposing team
has two choices.
To have the ball kicked off again, or
To have a scrum at the centre. They throw-in the ball.
64
LAW 13 - KICK-OFF AND RESTART KICKS
iRB
13.9	BALL GOES DIRECTLY INTO TOUCH
The ball must land in the field of play If it is kicked directly into touch the
opposing team has three choices.
To have the ball kicked off again, or
To have a scrum at the centre and they have the throw-in, or
To accept the kick
If they accept the kick, the line-out is on the half-way line. If the ball is
blown behind the half-way line and goes directly into touch, the line-out
is at the place where it went into touch.
13.10	BALL GOES INTO THE IN-GOAL
(a)	If the ball is kicked into the in goal without having touched or been
touched by a player, the opposing team has three choices’
To ground the ball, or
To make it dead, or
To play on.
(b)	If the opposing team grounds the ball, or if they make it dead, or if the
ball becomes dead by going into touch-in-goal or on or over the dead ball
line, they have two choices-
To have a scrum formed at the centre, and they throw-in the ball, or
To have the other team kick-off again.
(c)	If they opt to ground the ball or make it dead, they must do so without
delay. Any other action with the ball by a defending player means the
player has elected to play on.
13.11	DROP-OUT
DEFINITION
A drop-out is used to restart play after an attacking player has put or taken the
ball into the m-goal. without infringement, and a defending player has made the
ball dead there or it has gone into touch-in-goal or on or over the dead ball line.
A drop-out is a drop-kick taken by the defending team The drop-out may be
taken anywhere on or behind the 22-metre line
65
iRB
LAW 13 • KICK-OFF AND RESTART KICCS
13.12	DELAY IN DROP-OUT
The drop-out must be taken without delay
Penalty: Free Kick on the 22-metre line
13.13	DROP-OUT INCORRECTLY TAKEN
II the ball is kicked by the wrong type of kick, or from the wrong place, c
must be dropped out again
13.14	DROP-OUT MUST CROSS THE LINE
(a)	If the ball does not cross the 22-metre line, the opposing team has two
choices.
To have another drop-out, or
To have a scrum at the centre of the 22-metre line
They throw-in the ball.
(b)	If the ball crosses the 22-metre line but is blown back, play continues.
(c)	If the ball does not cross the 22-metre line, advantage may apply. A*
opponent who plays the ball can score a try.
13.15	DROP-OUT GOES DIRECTLY INTO TOUCH
The ball must land in the field of play. If it is kicked directly into touch, the
opposing team has three choices:
To have another drop-out. or
To have a scrum at the centre of the 22-metre line, and they throw-in the
ball, or
To accept the kick. If they accept the kick, the throw-in is on the 22-metre
line.
66
LAW 13 - KICK-OFF AND RESTART KICKS
iRB
13.16	DROP-OUT GOES INTO THE OPPONENTS IN-GOAL
(a) If the ball is kicked into the opponent's in-goal without having touched or
been touched by a player, the opposing team has three choices.
To ground the ball, or
To make it dead, or
To play on.
(b) If the opposing team grounds the ball, or makes it dead, or if the ball
becomes dead by going into touch-in-goai or on or over the dead ball
line, they have two choices:
To have a scrum formed at the centre of the 22-metre line from where the
kick was taken and they throw-in the ball, or
To have the other team drop-out again.
(c)	If they opt to ground the ball or make it dead, they must do so without
delay. Any other action with the ball by a defending player means the
player has elected to play on.
13.17	THE KICKER’S TEAM
(a) All the kicker's team must be behind the ball when it is kicked. If not, a
scrum is formed at the centre of the 22-metre line. The opposing team
throws in the ball
(b) However, if the kick is taken so quickly that players of the kicker's team
who are retiring are still in front of the ball, they will not be penalised.
They must not stop retiring until they have been made on-side by an
action of a team-mate. They must not take part in the game until they
have been made on-side in this way.
Penalty. Scrum at the centre ol the 22-metre line The opposing team
throws in the ball.
13.18	THE OPPOSING TEAM
(a) The opposing team must not charge over the 22-metre line before the
ball is kicked. If they do. another drop-out is taken.
(b) If an opponent is on the wrong side of the 22-metre line and delays or
obstructs the drop-out, the player is guilty of misconduct.
Penalty: Penalty Kick on the 22-metre line
67
RB LAW 13-KICK-OFF AND RESTART KICKS
1
DROP OUT
68
LAW 14 - BALL ON THE GROUND - NO TACKLE
iRB
LAW 14- BALL ON THE GROUND - NO TACKLE
DEFINITION
This situation occurs when the ball is available on the ground and a player goes
to ground to gather the ball, except immediately after a scrum or a ruck.
It also occurs when a player is on the ground in possession of the ball and has
not been tackled.
The game is to be played by players who are on their feet. A player must not
make the ball unplayable by falling down Unplayable means that the ball is not
immediately available to either team so that play may continue.
A player who makes the ball unplayable, or who obstructs the opposing team
by falling down, is negating the purpose and spirit of the game and must be
penalised.
A player who is not tackled, but who goes to ground while holding the ball, or a
player who goes to ground and gathers the ball, must act immediately.
14.1	PLAYER ON THE GROUND
The player must immediately do one of three things:
Get up with the ball, or
Pass the ball, or
Release the ball.
A player who passes or releases the ball must also get up or move away
from it at once. Advantage is played only if it happens immediately.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
14.2	WHAT THE PLAYER MUST NOT DO
(a)	Lying on or around the ball. A player must not lie on, over, or near the
bail to prevent opponents getting possession of it.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
69
iRB
LAW 14 - BALL ON THE GROUND - NOTACKLE
(b)	Falling over the player on the ground with the ball. A player must not
intentionally fall on or over a player with the ball who is lying on the
ground.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(c)	Falling over players lying on the ground near the ball. A player must
not intentionally fall on or over players lying on the ground with the ball
between them or near them
Penalty: Penalty Kick
70
LAW 15 - TACKLE: BALL-CARRIER BROUGHTTOTHE GROUND
iRB
LAW 15 - TACKLE: BALL-CARRIER BROUGHT
TO THE GROUND
DEFINITION
A tackle occurs when a ball-carrier is simultaneously held by one or more opponents
and is brought to the ground and/or the ball touches the ground. That player is
known as the tackled player Any opponents of the tackled player who go to ground
are known as tacklers.
Tackle
71
iRB
LAW 15 - TACKLE- BALL-CARRIER BROUGHT TO THE GROUND
15.1 WHERE CAN A TACKLE TAKE PLACE
A tackle can only take place in the field of play
15.2	WHEN A TACKLE CANNOT TAKE PLACE
When the ball-carrier is held by one opponent and a team-mate binds on
to that ball-carrier, a maul has been formed and a tackle cannot take
place.
15.3	BROUGHTTOTHE GROUND DEFINED
(a)	If the ball carrier has one knee or both knees on the ground, that player
has been 'brought to ground’.
(b)	If the ball-carrier is sitting on the ground, or on top of another player on
the ground the ball-carrier has been ‘brought to ground’.
15.4	LIFTING A BALL-CARRIER FROM THE GROUND
A ball-carrier who is lifted off the ground by an opponent is not tackled
and play continues.
15.5	THETACKLER
(a)	When a player tackles an opponent and they both go to ground, lhe
tackler must immediately release the tackled player
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(b)	The tackler must immediately get up or move away from the tackled
player and from the ball at once
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(c)	The tackler must get up before playing the ball.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
15.6	THE TACKLED PLAYER
(a)	A tackled player must not lie on, over, or near the ball to prevent
opponents from gaining possession of it, and must try to make the ball
available immediately so that play can continue
Penalty: Penalty Kick
72
LAW 15 - TACKLE: BALL-CARRIER BROUGHT TO THE GROUND
iRB
(b)	A tackled player must immediately pass the ball or release it. That player
must also get up or move away from it at once.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(c)	A tackled player may release the ball by putting it on the ground in any
direction, provided this is done immediately
Penally: Penalty Kick
(d)	A tackled player may release the ball by pushing it along the ground in
any direction except forward, provided this is done immediately.
Penally: Penalty Kick
Tackled player must release the ball immediately
X Tackled player must release the ball immediately
73
iRB
LAW 15 - TACKLE BALL-CARRIER BROUGHT TO THE GROUND
(e)	If opposition players who are on their feet attempt to play the ball, the
tackled player must release the ball.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(f)	If a tackled player's momentum carries the player into the in-goal, the
player can score a try or make a touch down.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(g)	If players are tackled near to the goal-line, these players may
immediately reach out and ground the ball on or over the goal-fine to
score a try or make a touch down.
A player tackled near tne goal-line can reach out and
ground the ball to score a try
(h)	The tackled player must not intentionally place the ball in touch The
tackled player must not intentionally push the ball into touch
Penalty: Penalty Kick on the 15 metre line
15.7	OTHER PLAYERS
(a)	After a tackle, all other players must be on their feet when they play the
ball. Players are on their feet if no other part of their body is supported
by the ground or players on the ground.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
74
LAW 15 - TACKLE: BALL-CARRIER BROUGHT TO THE GROUND
iRB
After a tackle all of the players must De on their feet
when they play they ball
X Player off his feet and playing the ball at the tackle
X Players off their feet and playing the ball at the tackle
75
iRB
LAW 15 - TACKLE BALL-CARRIER BROUGHT TO THE GR0V»O
(b)	After a tackle any players on their feet may attempt to gam possesses
by taking the ball from the ball-earners possession
(c)	At a tackle or near to a tackle, other players who play the ball must do so
from behind the ball and from directly behind the tackled player or the
tackler closest to those players’ goal-line.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(d)	Any player who gams possession of the ball at the tackle must play the
ball immediately by moving away or passing or kicking the ball
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(e)	Any player who first gams possession of the ball must not go to the
ground at the tackle or near to it unless tackled by an opposition player
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(f)	Any player who first gams possession of the ball at the tackle or near to
it may be tackled by an opposition player providing that player does so
from behind the ball and from directly behind the tackled player or the
tackler closest to that player’s goal-line.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(g)	After a tackle, any player lying on the ground must not prevent a~
opponent from getting possession of the ball
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(h)	After a tackle, any player on the ground must not tackle an opponent cr
try to tackle an opponent
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(i)	When a tackled player reaches out to ground the ball on or over the gob-
line to score a try, an opponent may pull the ball from the p'aye-'s
possession, but must not kick the ball.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
Exception: Ball goes into the m-goal. After a tackle near the goal-lme.
if the ball has been released and has gone into the m-goal any p’aye*.
including a player on the ground, may ground the ball
15.8 FORBIDDEN PRACTICES
(a)	No player may prevent the tackled player from passing the ball.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
76
LAW 15 - TACKLE: BALL-CARRIER BROUGHT TO THE GROUND
■RB
(b)	No player may prevent the tackled player from releasing the ball and
getting up or moving away from it.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(c)	No player may fall on or over the tackled player
Penalty: Penalty Kick
X No player may fall on or over a tackled player
(d)	No player may fall on or over the players lying on the ground after a tackle
with the ball between or near to them
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(e)	Players on their feet must not charge or obstruct an opponent who is not
near the ball.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(I) Danger may arise if a tackled player fails to release the ball or move away
from it immediately, or if that player is prevented from so doing If either
of these happens the referee awards a penalty kick immediately.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
15.9 DOUBT ABOUT FAILURE TO COMPLY
If the ball becomes unplayable at a tackle and there is doubt about which
player did not conform to Law, the referee orders a scrum immediately
with the throw-in by the team that was moving forward prior to the
stoppage or, if no team was moving forward, by the attacking team.
77
iRB
LAW 16 - RUCK
LAW 16-RUCK
DEFINITIONS
A ruck is a phase of play where one or more players from each team, who are
on their feet, in physical contact, close around the ball on the ground. Open play
has ended
Rucking. Players are rucking when they are in a ruck and using their feet to try
to win or keep possession of the ball, without being guilty of foul play.
16.1	FORMING A RUCK
(a)	Where can a ruck take place. A ruck can take place only in the field of
play.
(b)	How can a ruck form. Players are on their feet At least one player must
be in physical contact with an opponent The ball is on the ground.
Ruck
Ruck
78
LAW 16 - RUCK
iRB
16.2	JOINING A RUCK
(a)	All players forming, joining or taking part in a ruck must have their heads
and shoulders no lower than their hips.
Penalty: Free Kick
(b)	A player joining a ruck must bind onto the ruck with at least one arm
around the body of a team-mate, using lhe whole arm.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(c)	Placing a hand on another player in lhe ruck does not constitute binding
Penalty: Penally Kick
(d)	All players forming, joining or taking part in a ruck must be on their feel
Penalty: Penalty Kick
16.3	RUCKING
(a) Players in a ruck must endeavour to stay on their feet.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(b) A player must not intentionally fall or kneel in a ruck. This is dangerous
play.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(c)	A player must not intentionally collapse a ruck. This is dangerous play.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(d)	A player must not jump on top of a ruck.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(e)	Players must have their heads and shoulders no lower than their hips.
Penalty: Free Kick
(f)	A player rucking for the ball must not ruck players on the ground. A
player rucking for the ball tries to step over players on the ground and
must not intentionally step on them. A player rucking must do so near
the ball
Penalty. Penalty Kick for dangerous play
79
iRB
LAW 16-RUCK
16.4	OTHER RUCK OFFENCES
(a)	Players must not return the ball into a ruck.
Penalty: Free Kick
(b)	Players must not nandle the ball in a ruck.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(c)	Players must not pick up the ball in a ruck with their legs
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(d)	Players on the ground in or near the ruck must try to move away from the
ball These players must not interfere with the ball in the ruck or as it
comes out of the ruck
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(e)	A player must not fall on or over a ball as it is coming out of a ruck.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(I) A player must not take any action to make the opposing team think that
the ball is out of the ruck while it is still in the ruck
Penalty Free Kick
16.5	OFF-SIDE ATTHE RUCK
(a) The off-side line. There are two off-side lines parallel to the goal-lines
one for each team Each off-side line runs through the hindmost foot of
the hindmost player in the ruck If the hindmost foot of the hindmost
player is on or behind the goal-line, the off-side line for the defending
team is the goal-line.
(b) Players must either join a ruck, or retire behind the off-side line
immediately If a player loiters at the side of a ruck, the player is off-s'de.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(c)	Players joining the ruck. All players joining a ruck must do so from
behind the foot of the hindmost team-mate in the ruck A player may join
alongside this hindmost player If the player joins the ruck from the
opponents side, or in front of the hindmost team-mate, the player is off-
side.
Penalty: Penalty Kick on the offending team s off-side line
80
LAW 16 - RUCK
■RB
(d)	Players not joining the ruck. If a player Is in front of the off-side line
and does not join the ruck, the player must retire behind the off-side line
at once If a player who is behind the off-side line oversteps it and does
not join the ruck the player is off-side.
Penalty: Penalty Kick on the offending team’s off-side line
(e)	Players leaving or rejoining the ruck. If a player leaves a ruck that
player must immediately retire behind the off-side line otherwise the
player is off-side. Once the player is on-side, the player may rejoin the
ruck If the player rejoins in front of the hindmost team-mate in the ruck,
the player is off-side. The player may rejoin the ruck alongside the
hindmost team-mate.
Penalty: Penalty Kick on the offending team's off-side line
At a ruck or maul, the off-side line runs through the
hindmost foot of the player of the same team The player in
the gold and green jersey on the right-hand-side is off-side.
81
lRB
LAW 16-RUCK
16.6	SUCCESSFUL END TO A RUCK
A ruck ends successfully when the ball leaves the ruck, or when the bal
is on or over the goal-line.
16.7	UNSUCCESSFUL END TO A RUCK
(a)	A ruck ends unsuccessfully when the ball becomes unplayable and a
scrum is ordered
The team that was moving forward immediately before the ball became
unplayable in the ruck throws in the ball.
If neither team was moving forward, or if the referee cannot decide which
team was moving forward before the ball became unplayable in the rucx
the team that was moving forward before the ruck began throws in the
ball
If neither team was moving forward, then the attacking team throws in the
ball.
(b)	Before the referee blows the whistle for a scrum, the referee allows a
reasonable amount of time for the ball to emerge, especially if either
team is moving forward. If the ruck stops moving, or if the referee
decides that the ball will probably not emerge within a reasonable time.
the referee must order a scrum.
82
LAW 17- MAUL
iRB
LAW 17- MAUL
DEFINITION
A maul occurs when a player carrying the ball is held by one or more
opponents, and one or more of the ball-carrier's team-mates bind on the ball-
carrier A maul therefore consists of at least three players, all on their feet; the
ball-carrier and one player from each team. All the players involved are on their
feet and moving towards a goal-line. Open play has ended
17.1 FORMING A MAUL
(a)	Where can a maul take place. A maul can only take place in the
field of play.
Maul
Maul not formed
83
■RB
LAW 17-MAUL
Maul not formed
17.2	JOINING A MAUL
(a)	Players joining a maul must have their heads and shoulders no lower
than their hips.
Penalty Free Kick
(b)	A player must be caught in or bound to the maul and not just alongside
it.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(c)	Placing a hand on another player in the maul does not constitute binding.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(d)	Keeping players on their feet. Players in a maul must endeavour to
stay on their feet. The ball-carrier in a maul may go to ground providing
the ball is available immediately and play continues.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(e)	A player must not intentionally collapse a maul This is dangerous play.
Penalty: Penally Kick
(f)	A player must not jump on top of a maul.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
84
LAW 17 - MAUL
iRB
17.3	OTHER MAUL OFFENCES
(a) A player must not try to drag an opponent out of a maul
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(b)	A player must not take any action to make the opposing team think that
the ball is out of the maul while it is still in the maul.
Penalty: Free Kick
17.4	OFF-SIDE AT THE MAUL
(a)	The off-side line. There are two off-side lines parallel to the goal-lines,
one for each team. Each off-side line runs through the hindmost foot of
the hindmost player in the maul. If the hindmost foot of the hindmost
player is on or behind the goal-line, the off-side line for the defending
team is the goal-line
(b) A player must either join a maul, or retire behind the off-side line
immediately. If a player loiters at the side of a maul, the player is off-side
Penalty Penalty Kick on the offending team’s off-side line
(c)	Players joining the maul. Players joining a maul must do so from
behind the foot of the hindmost team-mate in the maul. The player may
join alongside this player. If the player joins the maul from the opponents’
side, or in front of the hindmost team-mate, the player is off-side
Penalty: Penalty Kick on the offending team s off-side line
(o) Players not joining the maul. All players in front of the off-side line and
who do not join the maul, must retire behind the off-side line at once. A
player who does not do so, is off-side. If any player who is behind the off-
side line oversteps it and does not join the maul, the player is off-side.
Penalty: Penalty Kick on the offending team’s off-side line
(e)	Players leaving or rejoining the maul. Players who leave a maul must
immediately retire behind the off-side line, otherwise, they are olf-side. If
the player rejoins the maul in front of the hindmost team-male in the
maul, they are off-side. The player may rejoin the maul alongside the
hindmost team-mate.
Penalty: Penalty Kick on the offending team’s off-side line
85
iRB
LAW 17-UAUL
17.5	SUCCESSFUL END TO A MAUL
A maul ends successfully when the ball or a player with the ball leaves
the maul. A maul ends successfully when the ball is on the ground, or is
on or over the goal-line.
17.6	UNSUCCESSFUL END TO A MAUL
(a)	A maul ends unsuccessfully if it remains stationary or has stopped
moving forward for longer than 5 seconds and a scrum is ordered
(b)	A maul ends unsuccessfully if the ball becomes unplayable or collapses
(not as a result of foul play) and a scrum is ordered
(c)	Scrum following maul. The ball is thrown in by the team not in
possession when the maul began If the referee cannot decide whch
team had possession, the team moving forward before the maul stopped
throws in the ball. If neither team was moving forward, the attacking team
throws in the ball.
(d)	When a maul remains stationary or has stopped moving forward for more
than 5 seconds, but the ball is being moved and the referee can see it. a
reasonable time is allowed for the ball to emerge. If it does not emerge
within a reasonable time, a scrum is ordered.
(e)	When a maul has stopped moving forward it may start moving forward
again providing it does so within 5 seconds. If the maul stops moving
forward a second time and if the ball is being moved and the referee can
see it, a reasonable time is allowed for the ball to emerge. If it does not
emerge within a reasonable time, a scrum is ordered.
(f)	When the ball in a maul becomes unplayable, the referee does not allo*
prolonged wrestling for it A scrum is ordered.
(g)	If the ball-carrier in a maul goes to ground, including being on one or both
knees or sitting, the referee orders a scrum unless the ball is immediately
available.
(h)	Scrum after a maul when catcher is held. If a player catches the ba'l
direct from an opponent’s kick, except from a kick-off or a drop-out. and
the player is immediately held by an opponent, a maul may form.Tnen if
the maul remains stationary, stops moving forward for longer than 5
seconds, or if the ball becomes unplayable, and a scrum is ordered, the
team of the ball catcher throws in the ball
86
LAW 17 - MAUL
iRB
‘Direct from an opponent’s kick’ means the ball did not touch another
player or the ground before the player caught it.
If a maul moves into the player’s in*goal, where the ball is touched down
or becomes unplayable, a 5 metre scrum is formed. The attacking team
throws in the ball
87
iRB
LAW 18-MARK
LAW 18 - MARK
DEFINITION
To make a mark, a player must be on or behind that player s 22-metre line A
player with one foot on the 22-metre line or behind it is considered to be ‘in the
22'. The player must make a clean catch direct from an opponent's kick and at
the same time shout “Markl". A mark cannot be made from a kick-off
A kick is awarded for a mark The place for the kick is the place of the mark.
A player may make a mark even though the ball touched a goal post or crossbar
before being caught.
A player from the defending team may make a mark in m-goal.
88
LAW 18 - MARK
pRB
18.1	AFTER A MARK
The referee immediately blows the whistle and awards a kick to the
player who made the mark.
18.2	KICK AWARDED
The kick is awarded at the place of the mark.
18.3	KICK-WHERE
The kick is taken at or behind the mark on a line through the mark.
18.4	WHO KICKS
The kick is taken by the player who made the mark If that player cannot
take the kick within one minute, a scrum is formed at the place of the
mark with the ball thrown in by the player's team If the mark is in the in-
goal, the scrum is 5 metres from the goal-line, on a line through the mark.
18.5	HOW THE KICK IS TAKEN
The provisions of Law 21 - Free Kicks - apply to a kick awarded after a
mark
18.6	SCRUM ALTERNATIVE
(a) The team of the player who made the mark may choose to take a scrum.
(b)	Where is the scrum. If the mark is in the field of play, the scrum is at
the place of the mark, but at least 5 metres from the touch-line If the
mark is in-goal, the scrum is 5 metres from the goal-line on a line through
the mark, and at least 5 metres from the touch-line
(c)	Who throws in. The team of the player who made the mark throws the
ball in.
18.7	PENALTY KICK AWARDED
(a) An opponent, whether on-side or off-side, must not charge a player who
has made a mark after the referee has blown the whistle
Penalty: Penalty Kick
89
iRB
LAW 18-MARK
(b) Where the penalty kick is taken. If the infringing player is on-side, the
penalty kick is taken al the place of the infringement. If the infringing
player is off-side, the penalty kick is taken at the place of the off-side line
(Law 11 Off-side and On-side in General Play)
(c)	The penalty kick. Any player from the non-offending team may take the
penalty kick
90
DURINTTHE MATCH - RESTARTS
■RB
RB
L'fltR NATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
DURING THE MATCH
RESTARTS
Law 19 Touch and Line-out
Law 20 Scrum
Law 21 Penalty and Free Kicks
91
iRB
LAW 19 - TOUCH AND LINE-OUT
LAW 19 -TOUCH AND LINE-OUT
DEFINITIONS
'Kicked directly into touch" means that the ball was kicked into touch without
landing on the playing area, and without touching a player or the referee.
‘The 22' is the area between the goal-line and the 22-metre line, including the
22-metre line but excluding the goal-line
The line of touch is an imaginary line in the field of play at right angles to the
touch-line through the place where the ball is thrown in.
The ball is in touch when it is not being carried by a player and it touches the
touch-line or anything or anyone on or beyond the touch-line
The ball is in touch when a player is carrying it and the ball-carrier (or the ball)
touches the touch-line or the ground beyond the touch-line
The place where the ball-carrier (or the ball) touched or crossed the touch-line
is where it went into touch
The ball is in touch if a player catches the ball and that player has a foot on the
touch-line or the ground beyond the touch-line
If a player has one foot in the field of play and one foot in touch and holds the
ball, the ball is in touch
If the ball crosses the touch-line or touch-in-goal line, and is caught by a player
who has both feel in the playing area, the ball is not in touch or touch-in-goal
Such a player may knock the ball into the playing area If a player jumps and
catches the ball, both feet must land in the playing area otherwise the ball is in
touch or touch-in-goal.
A player in touch may kick or knock the ball, out not hold it. provided it has not
crossed the plane of the touch-line. The plane of the touch-line is the vertical
space rising immediately above the touch-line
92
LAW 19 -TOUCH AND LINE OUT
■RB
19.1 THROW-IN
NO GAIN IN GROUND
(a) Outside a team's 22, a team member kicks directly Into touch.
Except lor a penalty kick, when a player anywhere in the field of play who
is outside the 22 kicks directly into touch, there is no gain in ground. The
throw-in is taken either at the place opposite where the player kicked the
ball, or at the place where it went into touch, whichever is nearer that
player's goal-line
(b) Player takes ball into that team's 22. When a defending player gets
the ball outside the 22. takes or puts it inside the 22. and then kicks
directly into touch, there is no gain in ground.
GAIN IN GROUND
(c)	Player Inside that team’s 22. When a defending player gets the ball
inside the 22, or that player’s in-goal and kicks into touch, the throw-in is
where the ball went into touch
(d)	Kicks indirectly into touch. When a player anywhere in the playing
area kicks indirectly into touch so that the ball bounces in the field of play
the throw-in is taken where the ball went into touch.
When a player anywhere in the playing area kicks the ball so that it
touches or is touched by an opposition player and then goes indirectly
into touch so that the ball bounces in the field of play the throw-in is taken
where the ball went into touch.
When a player anywhere in the playing area kicks the ball so that it
touches or is touched by an opposition player and then goes directly into
touch the throw-in is taken in line with where the opposition player
touched the ball or where the ball crossed the touch-line if that is nearer
the opposition player’s goal-line
93
iRB
LAW 19-TOUCH AND LINE-OUT
PENALTY KICK
(e)	Penalty kick. When a player kicks to touch from a penalty kick anywhere
in the playing area, the throw-in is taken where the ball went into touch.
FREE KICK
(f)	Outside the kicker's 22, no gain in ground. When a free kick awarded
outside the 22 goes directly into touch, the throw-in is in line with where
the ball was kicked, or where it went into touch, whichever is nearer the
kicker’s goal-line.
(g)	Inside the kicker's 22 or in-goal, gain in ground. When a free kick is
awarded in the 22 or m-goal and the kick goes directly into touch, the
throw-in is where the ball went into touch.
94
TOUCH AND LINE-OUT
iRB
LAW 19
19.2
(a)
(b)
QUICK THROW-IN
A player may take a quick throw-in without waiting for a line-out to form
For a quick throw-in, the player may be anywhere outside the field of play
between the place where the ball went into touch and the player's goal-
line.
(c)
(d)
(e)
A player must not take a quick throw-in after the line-out has formed If
the player does, the quick throw-in is disallowed The same team throws
In at the line-out.
For a quick throw-in, the player must use the ball that went into touch. If,
after it went to touch and was made dead, another ball is used, or if
another person has touched the ball apart from the player throwing it in,
then the quick throw-in is disallowed. The same team throws in at the
line-out.
At a quick throw-in, if the player does not throw the ball in straight so that
it travels at least 5 metres along the line of touch before it touches the
ground or a player, or if the player steps into the field of play when the
95
>RB
LAW 19-TOUCH AND UNE-OUT
ball is thrown, then the quick throw-in is disallowed. The opposing team
chooses to throw-in at either a line-out where the quick tnrow-m was
attempted, or a scrum on the 15-metre line at that place If they too
throw-in the ball incorrectly at the line-out, a scrum is formed on the 15-
metre line The team that first threw in the ball throws in the ball at toe
scrum.
(f)	At a quick throw-in, a player may come to the line of touch and leave
without being penalised.
(g)	At a quick throw-in, a player must not prevent the ball being thrown in 5
metres
Penalty: Free Kick on 15-metre line
(h)	If a player carrying the ball is forced into touch, that player must release
the ball to an opposition player so that there can be a quick throw-in.
Penalty: Penalty Kick on 15-metre line
19.3	OTHER THROW-INS
On all other occasions, the throw-in is taken where the ball went into
touch.
19.4	WHOTHROWS-IN
The throw-in is taken by an opponent of the player who last held or
touched the ball before it went into touch. When there is doubt, the
attacking team takes the throw-in.
TOUCH & THROW-IN
96
LAW 19 -TOUCH AND LINE-OUT
iRB
Exception
When a team takes a penalty kick, and the ball is kicked into touch, the
throw-in is taken by a player of the team that took the penalty kick. This
applies whether the ball was kicked directly or indirectly into touch
19.5	HOW THE THROW-IN IS TAKEN
The player taking the throw-in must stand at the correct place The player
must not step into the field of play when the ball is thrown The ball must
be thrown straight, so that it travels at least 5 metres along the line of
touch before it first touches the ground or touches or is touched by a
player
$0 THAT n TRAVtlS M HAST FMWW IIKXT n
TTKT IWCHfS THl CMUHD OB ICVCHTS 09 KI0UUH) fl A PWT9
HOW THE THROW-IN TAKES PLACE
19.6	INCORRECT THROW-IN
(a)	If the throw-in at a line-out is incorrect, the opposing team has the choice
of throwing in at a line-out or a scrum on the 15-metre line. If they choose
the throw-in to the line-out and it is again incorrect, a scrum is formed.
The team that took the first throw-in throws in the ball.
97
iRB
LAW 19 - TOUCH AND LINE-OUT
(b)	The throw-in at the line-out must be taken without delay and without
pretending to throw.
Penalty: Free Kick on the 15-metre line
(c)	A player must not intentionally or repeatedly throw the ball in not straight
Penalty: Penalty Kick on the 15-metre line
98
LAW 19-TOUCH AND LINE-OUT
iRB
LINE-OUT
DEFINITIONS
The purpose of the line-out is to restart play, quickly, safely and fairly, after the
ball has gone into touch, with a throw-in between two lines of players.
Line-out players. Line-out players are the players who form the two lines lhal
make a line-out
Receiver. The receiver is the player in position to catch the ball when line-out
players pass or knock the ball back from the line-out. Any player may be the
receiver but each team may have only one receiver at a line-out.
Players taking part in the line-out known as participating players. Players
taking part in the line-out are the player who throws-in and an immediate
opponent, the two players waiting to receive the ball from the hne-out and the
line-out players
All other players. All other players who are not taking part in the hne-out must
be at least 10 metres behind the line of touch, on or behind their goal-line if that
is nearer, until the line out ends.
15-metre line The 15-metre line Is 15 metres in-field and parallel with the
touch-line.
Scrum after line-out. Any scrum ordered because of an infringement or
stoppage at the line-out is on the 15-metre line on the line of touch
19.7	FORMING A LINE-OUT
(a)	Minimum. At least two players from each team must form a line-out.
Penalty: Free Kick on the 15-metre line
(b)	Maximum. The team throwing in the ball decides the maximum number
of players in the line-out.
Penalty: Free Kick on the 15-metre line
(c)	The opposing team may have fewer line-out players but they must not
have more.
Penalty: Free Kick on the 15-metre line
99
iRB
LAW 19 - TOUCH AND LINE-OUT
(d)	When the ball is in touch, every player who approaches the line of touch
is presumed to do so to form a line-out. Players who approach the line of
touch must do so without delay. Players of either team must not leave the
line-out once they have taken up a position in the line-out until the line-
out has ended
Penalty: Free Kick on the 15-metre line
(e)	If the team throwing in the ball put fewer than the usual number of players
in the line-out. their opponents must be given a reasonable time to move
enough players out of the line-out to satisfy this Lav/
Penalty: Free Kick on the 15-metre line
(f)	These players must leave the line-out without delay They must move to
the off-side line. 10 metres behind the line of touch. If the line-out ends
before they reach this line, they may rejoin play.
Penalty: Free Kick on the 15-metre line
(g)	Failure to form a line-out. A team must not voluntarily fail to form a fine-
out.
Penalty: Free Kick on the 15-metre line
(h)	Where the line-out players must stand. The front of the line-out is not
less than 5 metres from the touch-line The back of the line-out is not
more than 15 metres from the touch-line. All line-out players must stand
between these two points.
Penalty: Free Kick on the 15-metre line
(i)	Two single straight lines. The line out players of both teams form two
single parallel lines each at right angles to the touch-line
Penalty: Free Kick on the 15-metre line
(j)	Opposing players forming a hne-out must keep a clear space between
their inside shoulders. This space is determined when players are in an
upright stance.
Penalty: Free Kick on the 15-metre line
(k)	Metre gap. Each line of players must be half a metre on their side of the
line of touch.
Penalty: Free Kick on the 15-metre line
(I)	The line of touch must not be within 5 metres of the goal-line.
100
LAW 19-TOUCH AND LINE-OUT
iRB
J*----orr-snx uni for non mrficmms-*
• i i
♦; k ***!*■ ■■ y
: • : ° :°
: • ; o ;
• . o
©: • : 2 :
® o :°
_L______________• I o______________L_
^—UNFOFJOUCM 1
i 1
! ! o !
THE LINE-OUT
(m)	After the line-out has formed, but before the ball has been thrown in, a
player must not hold, push, charge into, or obstruct an opponent
Penalty: Penalty Kick on the 15-metre line
19-8 BEGINNING AND ENDING A LINE-OUT
(a)	Line-out begins. The line-out begins when the ball leaves the hands of
the player throwing it in.
(b)	Line-out ends. The line-out ends when the ball or a player carrying it
leaves the line-out
This includes the following:
When the ball is thrown, knocked or kicked out of the line-out. the line-
out ends.
101
iRB
LAW 19 - TOUCH AND LINE-OUT
When the ball or a player carrying the ball moves into the area between
the 5-metre line and the touch-line.
When a line out player hands the ball to a player who is peeling off. tne
line-out ends.
When the ball is thrown beyond the 15-metre line, or when a player takes
or puts it beyond that line, the line-out ends.
When a ruck or maul develops in a line-out. and all the feet of all tne
players in the ruck or maul move beyond the line of touch, the line-out
ends.
When the ball becomes unplayable in a line-out, the line out ends. Play
restarts with a scrum
19.9 OPTIONS AVAILABLE IN A LINE-OUT
(a)	Off-side. A line-out player must not be off-side. The off-side line runs
through the line of touch until the ball is thrown in After the ball has
touched a player or the ground, the off-side line is a line through the ba'l.
Penalty: Penally Kick on the 15-metre line
(b)	Players jumping for the ball may take a step in any direction providing
they do not step across the line of touch.
Penalty: Penalty Kick on the 15-metre line
(c)	Levering on an opponent. A line-out player must not use an opponent
as a support when jumping.
Penalty: Penalty Kick on the 15-metre line
(d)	Holding or shoving. A line-out player must not hold, push, charge.
obstruct or grasp an opponent not holding the ball except when a ruck or
maul is taking place.
Penalty: Penalty Kick on the 15-melre line
(e)	Illegal charging. A line-out player must not charge an opponent except
in an attempt to tackle the opponent or to play the ball.
Penalty: Penalty Kick on the 15-metre line
(f)	Levering on a team-mate. A jumping line-out player must not use a
team-mate as a support to jump.
Penalty: Free Kick on the 15-metre line
102
LAW 19 -TOUCH ANO LINE-OUT
iRB
wum* tououMr-tnttam
(g)	Lifting. A line-out player must not lift a team-mate.
Penalty: Free Kick on the 15-metre line
(h)	Support before jumping. A player must not support a team-mate
before the team-mate has jumped
Penalty: Free Kick on the 15-metre line
(0 Jumping or supporting before the ball Is thrown. A player must not
jump for the ball or support any player before the ball has left the hands
of the player throwing it in.
Penalty: Free Kick on the 15-metre line
(j)	Pre-grip below the waist. A player must not pre-grip any team-mate
below the waist.
Penalty: Free Kick on the 15 metre line
(k)	Support of a player. A player must not support a jumping team-mate
below the shorts from behind or below the thighs from the front.
Penalty Penalty Kick on the 15 metre line
103
iRB
LAW 19 - TOUCH ANO LINE-OUT
(I)	Lowering a Player. Players who support a jumping team-male must
lower that player to the ground as soon as the ball has been won by a
player of either team.
Penalty: Free-Kick on the 15 metro line
(m)	Blocking the throw-in. A line-out player must not stand less than 5
metres from the touch-line A line-out player must not prevent the ba'l
being thrown in 5 metres.
Penalty: Free Kick on the 15-metre line
(n)	When the ball has been thrown beyond a player in the line-out. that
player may move to the space between the touch-line and the 5-metre
line If the player moves into that space the player must not move towards
that player’s goal-line before the line-out ends, except in a peeling o*f
movement.
Penalty: Free Kick on the 15-metre line
(o)	Catching or deflecting. When jumping for the ball, a player must use
either both hands or the inside arm to try to catch or deflect the ball The
jumper must not use the outside arm alone to try to catch or deflect the
ball.
If the jumper has both hands above the head either hand may be used
to play the ball.
Penalty: Free Kick on the 15-metre line
19.10 OPTIONS AVAILABLE TO PLAYERS NOT IN THE LINE-OUT
In general, a player not taking part in a line-out must stay at least 10
metres behind the line of touch, or on or behind that player’s goal-line if
that is nearer, until the line-out ends.
There are two exceptions to this:
Exception 1: Long throw-in If the player who is throwing »n throws the
ball beyond the 15-metre line, a player of the same team may run forward
to take the ball. If that player does so. an opponent may also run forward
Penalty: Penalty Kick on the offending team's off-side line, opposite the
place of infringement but not less than 15 metres from the touch-line.
Exception 2: Receiver runs into a gap. A receiver may run into a gap m
the line-out and take the ball. The receiver must not charge or obstruct
an opponent in the line-out during such action
Penalty: Penalty Kick on the 15-metre line
104
LAW 19-TOUCH AND LINE-OUT
iRB
19.11	PEELING OFF
DEFINITION
A line-out player ‘peels off when leaving the line-out to catch the ball knocked
or passed back by a team-mate.
(a)	When: A player must not peel off until the ball has left the hands of the
player throwing it in
Penalty: Free Kick on the 15-metre line, in line with the line of touch.
(b)	A player who peels off. must stay within the area from that players’ line
of touch to 10 metres from the line of touch, and must keep moving until
the line-out has ended.
Penalty: Free Kick on the 15-metre line, in line with the line of touch.
(c)	Players may change their positions in the line-out before the ball is
thrown in.
19.12	OFF-SIDE AT THE LINE-OUT
(a)	When a line-out forms, there are two separate off-side lines, parallel to
the goal-lines, for the teams.
(b)	Participating players. One off-side line applies to the players taking part
in the line-out (usually some or all of the forwards, plus the scrum-half
and the player throwing in). Until the ball is thrown in. and has touched a
player or the ground, this off-side line is the line of touch. After that, the
off-side line is a line through the ball.
(c)	Players not taking part. The other off-side line applies Io the players not
taking part in the line-out (usually the backs) For them, the off-side line
is 10 metres behind the line of touch or their goal-line, if that is nearer.
The line-out off-side Law is different in the case of a long throw-in, or in
the case of a ruck or maul in the line-out.
105
iRB
LAW 19 -TOUCH AND UNE-OUT
19.13	OFF-SIDE WHEN TAKING PART IN THE LINE-OUT
(a)	Before the ball has touched a player or the ground. A player must
not overstep the line of touch. A player is off-side, if, before the ball has
touched a player or the ground, that player oversteps the line of touch,
unless doing so while jumping for the ball. The player must jump from that
player's side of the line of touch.
Penally: Penalty Kick on the 15-metre line
(b)	If a player jumps and crosses the line of touch but fails to catch the ball.
that player is not penalised provided that player gels back on side
without delay.
(c)	After the ball has touched a player or the ground. A player not
carrying the ball is off-side if. after the ball has touched a player or lhe
ground, that player steps in front of the ball, unless tackling (or trying Io
tackle) an opponent. Any attempt to tackle must start from that player’s
side of the ball
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(d)	The referee must penalise any player who, intentionally or not. moves
into an off-side position without trying to win possession or tackle an
opponent
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(e)	No player of either team participating in the line-out may leave the line-
out until it has ended.
Penalty: Penalty Kick on the 15-metre line
19.14	PLAYER THROWING-IN
There are four options available to the player throwing in (and the
thrower’s immediate opponent).
(a)	The thrower may slay within 5 metres of the touch-line
(b)	The thrower may retire to the off-side line 10 metres behind lhe line of
touch
(c)	The thrower may join lhe line-out as soon as the ball has been thrown in.
(d)	The thrower may move into lhe receiver position if that position is empty
If the thrower goes anywhere else, the thrower is off-side
Penalty: Penalty Kick on the 15-metre line
106
LAW 19 -TOUCH AND LINE-OUT
■RB
19.15	OFF-SIDE WHEN NOT TAKING PART IN THE LINE-OUT
(a)	Before the line-out has ended. The off-side line is 10 melres behind the
line of touch, or the player’s goal-line, whichever is nearer.
A player who is not taking part in the line-out is offside if that player
oversteps the off-side line before the line-out has ended.
Penalty: Penalty Kick on the offending team’s off-side line opposite the
place of infringement, at least 15 metres from the touch-line.
(b)	Players not yet on-side when the ball is thrown in. A player may
throw-in the ball even if a team-mate has not yet reached the off-side
line. However, if this player is not trying to reach an on-side position
without delay, this player is off-side
Penalty: Penalty Kick on the offending team's off-side line opposite the
place of infringement, at least 15 metres from the touch-line
Exception: Long throw-in There is an exception to the Law of off-side at
the line-out. It applies if the ball is thrown beyond the 15-metre line. As
soon as the ball leaves the hands of the player throwing in, any players
of the thrower’s team may run for the ball.
This means that a player taking part in the line-out may run infield beyond
the 15-metre line, and a player not taking part in the line-out may run
forward across the off-side line.
If this happens, an opponent may also run infield or run forward.
However, if a player runs infield or runs forward to take a long throw-in.
and the ball is not thrown beyond the 15-metre line, this player is off-side
and must be penalised.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
For players taking part in the line-out: penalty kick is on the 15-metre line.
For players not taking part in the line-out: penalty kick is on the offending
team s off-side line al the place of infringement, at least 15 metres from
the touch-line.
107
iRB
LAW 19 - TOUCH AND LINE-OUT
19.16	OFF-SIDE AT RUCKS OR MAULS IN THE LINE-OUT
(a)	When a ruck or a maul develops in a line-out the off-side line for a player
taking part in the line-out no longer runs through the ball The off-side line
is now the hindmost foot of that player's team in the ruck or maul.
(b)	However, for players not taking part in the line-out. the off-side line is still
10 metres behind the line of touch For these players, the line-out does
not end when a ruck or maul develops.
(c)	It ends when the ruck or maul leaves the line of touch. For this to happen.
all the feet of all the players in the ruck or maul must have left the line of
touch.
(d)	A player taking part in the line-out must either join the ruck or maul, or
retire to the off-side line and stay at that line, Otherwise that player is off-
side.
Penalty: Penally Kick on the 15-metre line
(e)	The rest of the Law of ruck or maul applies. A player must not join the
ruck or maul from the opponents' side
Penalty: Penalty Kick
Players must not join it in front of the off-side line If they do, they are off-
side.
Penalty: Penalty Kick on the 15-metre line
(f)	Players not taking part in the line-out. When a ruck or maul develops
in a line-out, the line-out has not ended until all the feet of all the players
in the ruck or maul have moved beyond the line of touch.
Until then, the off-side line for players not taking part in the line-out is still
10 metres behind the line of touch, or the goal-line if that is nearer A
player who oversteps this off-side line is off-side
Penalty: Penalty Kick on the off-side line at least 15 metres from the
touch-line
108
LAW 20 • SCRUM
iRB
LAW 20 - SCRUM
DEFINITIONS
The purpose of the scrum is to restart play quickly, safely and fairly, after a
minor infringement or a stoppage.
A scrum is formed in the field of play when eight players from each team, bound
together in three rows for each team, close up with their opponents so that the
heads of the front rows are interlocked. This creates a tunnel into which a
scrum-half throws in the ball so that front row players can compete for
possession by hooking the ball with either of their feet
The middle line of a scrum must not be within 5 metres of the goal-line. A scrum
cannot take place within 5 metres of a touch-line.
Tne tunnel is the space between the two front rows
Tne player of either team who throws the ball into the scrum is the scrum-half.
The middle line is an imaginary line on the ground in the tunnel beneath the line
where the shoulders of the two front rows meet
The middle player in each front row is the hooker.
The players on either side of the hooker are the props. The left side props are
the loose-head props. The right side props are the tight-head props.
The two players in the second row who push on the props and the hooker are
the locks.
The outside players who bind onto the second or third row are the flankers.
Tne player in the third row who usually pushes on both locks is the No 8.
Alternatively, the No 8 may push on a lock and a flanker
20.1 FORMING A SCRUM
(a)	Where the scrum takes place. The place for a scrum is where the
infringement or stoppage happened, or as near to it as is practicable in
the field of play, unless otherwise stated in Law.
(o) If this is less than 5 metres from a touch-line, the place for the scrum is
5 metres from that touch-line. A scrum can lake place only in the field of
play. The middle line of a scrum must not be within 5 metres of the goal-
line when it is formed.
109
iRB
LAW 20 - SCRUM
(c)	If there is an infringement or stoppage in in-goal, the place for the scrum
is 5 metres from the goal-line.
(d)	The scrum is formed in line with the place of the infringement or
stoppage
(e)	No delay. A team must not intentionally delay forming a scrum.
Penalty: Free Kick
(f)	Number of players: eight. A scrum must have eight players from each
team All eight players must stay bound to the scrum until it ends Each
front row must have three players in it, no more and no less. Two locks
must form the second row.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
Exception : When a team is reduced to fewer than fifteen for any reason.
then lhe number of players of each team in the scrum may be similarly
reduced Where a permitted reduction is made by one team, there is no
requirement for the other team to make a similar reduction. However, a
team must not have fewer than five players in the scrum.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(g)	Front rows coming together. First, the referee marks with a foot the
place where the scrum is to be formed. Before the two front rows come
together they must be standing not more than an arm’s length apart. The
ball is in the scrum-halfs hands, ready to be thrown in The front rows
must crouch so that when they meet, each player's head and shoulders
are no lower than lhe hips. The front rows must interlock so that no
player's head is next to the head of a team-mate.
Penalty: Free Kick
(h)	The front rows crouch and pause, and then come together only when the
referee calls 'engage . This call is not a command but an indication that
the front rows may come together when ready
Penalty: Free Kick
(i)	A crouched position is the extension of the normal stance by bending the
knees sufficiently to move into the engagement witnout a charge.
(j)	Charging. A front row must not form at a distance from its opponents
and rush against them. This is dangerous play.
Penalty: Penally Kick
110
LAW 20 - SCRUM
iRB
(k)	Stationary and parallel. Until the ball leaves the scrum-hall's hands, the
scrum must be stationary and the middle line must be parallel to the
goal-lines A team must not shove the scrum away from the mark before
the ball is thrown in
Penalty: Free Kick
20.2	FRONT-ROW PLAYERS’ POSITIONS
(a)	All players In a position to shove. When a scrum has formed, the body
and feet of each front row player must be in a normal position to make a
forward shove
Penalty: Free Kick
(b)	This means that the front row players must have both feel on the ground.
with their weight firmly on at least one foot Players must not cross their
feet, although the foot of one player may cross a team-male's foot. Each
player’s shoulders must be no lower than the hips.
Penalty: Free Kick
(c)	Hooker in a position to hook. Until the ball is thrown in, the hooker
must be in a position to hook the ball The hookers must have both feet
on the ground, with their weight firmly on al least one foot A hooker’s
foremost foot must not be in front of the foremost foot of that team's
props.
Penalty: Free Kick
20.3	BINDING IN THE SCRUM
DEFINITION
When a player binds on a team-mate that player must use the whole
arm from hand to shoulder to grasp the team-male's body at or below
the level of the armpit Placing only a hand on another player is not
satisfactory binding.
(a)	Binding by all front row players. All front row players must bind firmly
and continuously from the start to the finish of the scrum.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(b)	Binding by hookers. The hooker may bind either over or under the arms
of the props The props must not support the hooker so that the hooker
has no weight on either foot
Penalty: Penalty Kick
iRB
LAW 20 - SCRUM
(c)	Binding by loose-head props. A loose-head prop must bind on the
opposing tight-head prop by placing the left arm inside the right arm of
the tight-head and gripping the tight-head prop’s jersey on the back or
side. The loose-head prop must not grip the chest, arm, sleeve or co.'lar
of the opposition tight-head prop The loose-head prop must not exert
any downward pressure
Penalty: Penalty Kick
BINDING BY PROPS
(d)	Binding by tight-head props. A light head prop must bind on the
opposing loose-head prop by placing the right arm outside the left upper
arm of the opposing loose-head prop The tight-head prop must grip the
loose-head prop’s jersey with the right hand only on the back or side The
tight-head prop must not grip the chest, arm. sleeve or collar of the
opposition loose-head prop. The tight-head prop must not exert any
downward pressure
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(e)	Both the loose-head and tight-head props may alter their bind provid.ng
they do so in accordance with this Law.
(f)	Binding by all other players. All players in a scrum, other than front-row
players, must bind on a lock’s body with at least one arm. The locks must
bind with the props in front of them No player other than a prop may hold
an opponent
Penalty: Penalty Kick
112
LAW 20 - SCRUM
iRB
(g)	Flanker obstructing opposing scrum-half. A flanker may bind onto the
scrum at any angle, provided the flanker is properly bound The flanker
must not widen that angle and so obstruct the opposing scrum-half
moving forward.
Penalty: Penally Kick
(h)	Scrum collapse. If a scrum collapses, the referee must blow the whistle
immediately so that players stop pushing.
(•) Player forced upwards. If a player in a scrum is lifted in the air, or is
forced upwards out of the scrum, the referee must blow the whistle
immediately so that players stop pushing.
20.4	THE TEAM THROWING THE BALL INTO THE SCRUM
(a)	After an infringement, the team that did not cause the infringement
throws in the ball.
(b)	Scrum after ruck. Refer to Law 16.7.
(c)	Scrum after maul. Refer to Law 17.6.
(d)	Scrum after any other stoppage. After any other stoppage or
irregularity not covered by Law, the team that was moving forward before
the stoppage throws in the ball. If neither team was moving forward, the
attacking team throws in the ball.
(e)	When a scrum remains stationary and the ball does not emerge
immediately a further scrum is ordered at the place of the stoppage The
ball is thrown in by the team not in possession at the time of the stoppage.
(f)	When a scrum becomes stationary and does not start moving
immediately, the ball must emerge immediately. If it does not a further
scrum will be ordered. The ball is thrown in by the team not in possession
al the time of the stoppage.
(g)	II a scrum collapses or lifts up into the air without penalty a further scrum
will be ordered and tne team who originally threw in the ball will throw the
ball in again.
If a scrum has to be reformed for any other reason not covered in this
Law the team who originally threw in the ball will throw the ball in again
113
iRB
LAW 20 - SCRUM
20.5 THROWING THE BALL INTO THE SCRUM
(a)	No Delay. As soon as the front rows have come together, the scrum-hall
must throw-in the ball without delay. The scrum-half must throw-in the ball
when told to do so by the referee The scrum-half must throw-in the ball
from the side of the scrum first chosen.
Penalty: Free Kick
(b)	Intentional delay in throwing in the ball must be penalised.
Penalty: Free Kick
20.6	HOW THE SCRUM-HALF THROWS IN THE BALL
(a)	The scrum-half must stand one metre from the mark on the middle line
so that player's head does not touch the scrum or go beyond the nearest
front row player.
Penalty: Free Kick
(b)	The scrum-half must hold the ball with both hands, with its major axis
parallel to the ground and to the touch-line over the middle line between
the front rows, mid-way between knee and ankle
Penalty: Free Kick
(c)	The scrum-half must throw-in the ball at a quick speed. The ball must be
released from the scrum-halfs hands from outside the tunnel
Penalty: Free Kick
(d)	The scrum-half must throw-in the ball straight along the middle line, so
that it first touches the ground immediately beyond the width of the
nearer prop's shoulders
Penalty: Free Kick
(e)	The scrum-half must throw-in the ball with a single forward movement
This means that there must be no backward movement with the ball The
scrum-half must not pretend to throw the ball
Penalty: Free Kick
114
LAW 20 - SCRUM
iRB
Throw-in at the scrum
20.7	WHEN THE SCRUM BEGINS
(a)	Play in the scrum begins when the ball leaves the hands of the scrum-
half.
(0) If the scrum-half throws in the ball and it comes out at either end of the
tunnel, the ball must be thrown in again unless a free kick or penalty has
been awarded.
(c)	If the ball is not played by a front row player, and it goes straight through
the tunnel and comes out behind the foot of a far prop without being
touched, the scrum half must throw it in again
(d)	If the ball is played by a front row player and comes out of the tunnel,
advantage may apply.
20.8	FRONT-ROW PLAYERS
(a)	Striking before the throw-in (‘foot up')- All front row players must place
their feet to leave a clear tunnel Until the ball has left the scrum-half s
hands, they must not raise or advance a foot They must not do anything
to stop the ball being thrown in to the scrum correctly or touching the
ground at the correct place.
Penalty: Free Kick
(o) Striking after the throw-in. Once the ball touches the ground in the
tunnel, any front row player may use either foot to try to win possession
of the ball.
115
iRB
LAW 20 - SCRUM
(c)	Klcklng-out. A front row player must not intentionally kick the ball out of
the tunnel in the direction from which it was thrown in.
Penalty: Free Kick
(d)	If the ball is kicked out unintentionally, the same team must throw it in
again
(e)	If the ball is repeatedly kicked out, the referee must treat this as
intentional and penalise the offender.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(f)	Swinging. A front row player must not strike for the ball with both feet.
No player may intentionally raise both feet from the ground, either when
the ball is being thrown in or afterwards
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(g)	Twisting, dipping or collapsing. Front row players must not twist or
lower their bodies, or pull opponents, or do anything that is likely to
collapse the scrum, either when the ball is being thrown in or afterwards.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(h)	Referees must penalise strictly any intentional collapsing of the scrum.
This is dangerous play.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(i)	Lifting or forcing an opponent up. A front row player must not lift an
opponent in the air, or force an opponent upwards out of the scrum,
either when the ball is being thrown in or afterwards This is dangerous
play
Penalty: Penalty Kick
20.9	SCRUM - GENERAL RESTRICTIONS
(a)	All players: Collapsing. A player must not intentionally collapse a
scrum A player must not intentionally fall or kneel in a scrum. This is
dangerous play.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(b)	All players: Handling in the scrum. Players must not handle the ball
in the scrum or pick it up with their legs.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
116
LAW 20 - SCRUM
iRB
(c)	All players: Other restrictions on winning the ball. Players must not
try to win the ball in the scrum by using any part of their body except their
foot or lower leg
Penalty: Free Kick
(d)	All players: When the ball comes out, leave it out. When the ball has
left the scrum, a player must not bring it back in to the scrum
Penalty: Free Kick
(e)	All players: No falling on the ball. A player must not fall on or over the
ball as it is coming out of the scrum
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(f)	Locks and flankers: Staying out of the tunnel. A player who is not a
front row player must not play the ball in the tunnel.
Penalty: Free Kick
(g)	Scrum-half: Kicking in the scrum. A scrum-half must not kick the ball
while it is in the scrum.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(h)	Scrum-half: Dummying. A scrum-half must not take any action to
make the opponents think that the ball is out of the scrum while it is still
in the scrum
Penalty: Free Kick
(') Scrum-half: Holding opposing flanker. A scrum-half must not grasp
an opposing flanker in order to gain leverage, or for any other reason.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
20.10	ENDING THE SCRUM
(a)	The ball comes out. When the ball comes out of the scrum in any
direction except the tunnel, the scrum ends.
(b)	Scrum In the in-goal. A scrum cannot take place in the in-goal. When
the ball in a scrum is on or over the goal-line, the scrum ends and an
attacker or a defender may legally ground the ball for a try or a touch
down
(c)	Hindmost player unbinds. The hindmost player in a scrum is the player
whose feet are nearest the team's own goal-line. If the hindmost player
unbinds from the scrum with the ball at that player's feet and picks up the
ball, the scrum ends
117
iRB
LAW 20 - SCRUM
20.11 SCRUM WHEELED
(a)	If a scrum is wheeled through more than 90 degrees, so that the midd.e
line has passed beyond a position parallel to the touch-line, the referee
must stop play and order another scrum.
EXPERIMENTAL LAW VARIATION
(b)	This new scrum is formed al the place where the previous scrum ended
The ball is thrown in by the team not in possession at the time of the
stoppage. If neither team win possession, it is thrown in by the team that
previously threw it in
20.12 OFF-SIDE AT THE SCRUM
DEFINITION
Al a scrum, the off-side line for the scrum-halves runs through the line of the
ball in the scrum. For every other player the off-side line runs through the
hindmost fool of that player's team in the scrum. If the hindmost foot of a team
is on or behind that team's goal line, the off-side line is the goal-line. The off-
side lines are parallel to the goal-lines.
The purpose of the scrum off-side Law is to ensure that, until the scrum ends.
the team winning the ball has a clear space in which to make use of it
(a)	When the scrum is set, the scrum-half not throwing tne ball into the
scrum must take up a position either at the same side of the scrum as
the scrum-naif throwing in tne ball or behind the off-side line defined for
other players
(b)	Off-side for scrum-halves. When a team has won the ball in a scrum.
the scrum-half of that team is off-side if both feet are in front of the ball
while it is still in the scrum If the scrum-half has only one foot in front of
the ball, the scrum-half is not off-side.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
118
LAW 20 - SCRUM
iRB
SCRUM OFF-SIDE
(c)	When a team has won the ball in a scrum, the scrum-half of the opposing
team is off-side if that scrum-half steps in front of the ball with either foot
while the ball is still in the scrum.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(a)	The scrum-half whose team does not win possession of the ball must not
move to the opposite side of the scrum and overstep the off-side line
running through the hindmost fool of that player's team in the scrum.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(e)	The scrum-half whose team does not win possession of the ball must not
move away from the scrum and then remain in front of the off-side line
running through the hindmost foot of that player's team in the scrum.
Penalty: Penalty Kick
(f)	Any player may be scrum-half, but a team can have only one scrum-half
at each scrum
Penalty: Penalty Kick on the off-side line
(g)	Off-side for players not In the scrum. Players who are not in the
scrum, and who are not the team s scrum-half, are off-side if they remain
in front of their off-side line or overstep the off-side line.
Penalty: Penalty Kick on the off-side line
(h)	Loitering. When a scrum is forming, players not taking part in it must
retire to their off-side line without delay. If they do not, they are loitering.
Loiterers must be penalised.
Penalty: Penalty Kick on the off-side line.
119
iRB
LAW 21 - PENALTY AND FREE KICKS
LAW 21 - PENALTY AND FREE KICKS
DEFINITION
Penalty kicks and free kicks are awarded to the non-offending team for
infringements by their opponents.
21.1 WHERE PENALTY AND FREE KICKS ARE AWARDED
Unless a Law states otherwise, the mark for a penalty or free kick is at
the place of infringement
21.2	WHERE PENALTY AND FREE KICKS ARETAKEN
(a) The kicker must take the penalty or free kick at the mark or anywhere
behind it on a line through the mark. If the place for a penalty or free kick
is within 5 metres of the opponents’ goal-line, the mark for the kick is 5
metres from the goal-line, opposite the place of infringement.
(b)	When a penalty or free kick is awarded for an infringement in m-goal. the
mark for the kick is in the field of play. 5 metres from the goal-line, in line
with the place of infringement
Penalty: Any infringement by the kicker's learn results in a scrum at the
mark The opposing team throws in the ball.
21.3	HOWTHE PENALTY AND FREE KICKS ARETAKEN
(a) Any player may take a penalty or free kick awarded for an infringement
with any type of kick punt, drop-kick or place kick The ball may be kicked
with any part of the lower leg from knee to the foot, excluding the knee
and the heel
(b)	Bouncing the ball on the knee is not taking a kick.
Penalty: Any infringement by the kicker's team results in a scrum at the
mark. The opposing team throws in the ball.
(c)	The kicker must use the ball that was in play unless the referee decides
it was defective
Penalty: Any infringement by the kicker's team results in a scrum at the
mark The opposing team throws in the ball.
120
LAW 21 - PENALTY AND FREE KICKS
iRB
21.4	PENALTY AND FREE KICK OPTIONS AND REQUIREMENTS
(a)	Scrum alternative. A team awarded a penalty or free kick may choose
a scrum instead. They throw-in the ball
(0) No delay. If a kicker indicates to the referee the intention to kick a penalty
kick at goal, the kick must be taken within one minute from the time the
player indicates the intention to kick al goal. The intention to kick is
signalled by the arrival of the kicking tee or sand, or when the player
makes a mark on the ground. The player must complete the kick within
one minute even if the ball rolls over and has to be placed again If the
one minute is exceeded, the kick is disallowed, a scrum is ordered at the
place of the mark and the opponents throw-in the ball For any other type
of kick, the kick must be taken without undue delay
(c)	A clear kick. The kicker must kick the ball a visible distance. If the kicker
is holding it. it must clearly leave the hands. If it is on the ground, it must
clearly leave the mark
(a) Place kicking for touch. The kicker may punt or drop-kick for touch but
must not place kick for touch
(e)	Kicker’s freedom of action. The kicker is free to kick the ball in any
direction and may play the ball again.
(0 Kick taken in the in-goal. When a penalty or free kick is taken in the
team's m-goal and a defending player by foul play prevents an opponent
from scoring a try, a penalty try is awarded.
(g)	Out of play in the in-goal. If a penalty or free kick is taken in in-goal and
the ball goes into touch-in-goal, or on or over the dead ball line, or a
defending player makes the ball dead before it has crossed the goal-line.
a 5 metre scrum is awarded. The attacking team throws in the ball
(h)	Behind the ball. All the kicker’s team at a penalty or free kick must be
behind the ball until it has been kicked, except the placer for a place kick
(') Kick taken quickly. If the penalty or free kick is taken so quickly that
players of the kicker's team are still in front of the ball, they are not
penalised for being off-side. However, they must retire immediately. They
must not stop retiring until they are on-side. They must not take part in
the game until they are on-side. This applies to all players of that team,
whether they are inside or outside the playing area
121
■RB
LAW 21 - PENALTY AND FREE KICKS
(j) In this situation, players become on-side when they run behind the team-
mate who took the penalty or free kick, or when a team-male carrying the
ball runs in front of them, or when a team-mate who was behind the ball
when it was kicked runs in front of them.
(k) An off-side player cannot be put on-side by any action of an opponent.
Penalty: Unless otherwise stated in Law any infringement by the kicker’s
team results in a scrum at lhe mark The opposing team throw-in the ba I
21.5	SCORING A GOAL FROM A PENALTY KICK
(a) A penalty goal can be scored from a penalty kick.
(b)	II the kicker indicates to the referee lhe intention to kick at goal, the kicker
must kick al goal. Once lhe kicker has made lhe intention clear, there
can be no change of the intention. The referee may enquire of the kicker
as to the intention.
(c)	If lhe kicker indicates to the referee the intent to kick at goal, the
opposing team must stand still with their hands by their sides from lhe
time the kicker starts to approach to kick until the ball is Kicked
PENALTY KICK AT GOAL
122
LAW 21 • PENALTY AND FREE KICKS
iRB
(d)	If the kicker has not indicated an intention to kick at goal but takes a drop-
kick and scores a goal, the goal stands.
(e)	If the opposing team infringes white the kick is being taken but the kick
at goal is successful, the goal stands A further penalty is not awarded
for the infringement.
(0 The kicker may place the ball directly on the ground or on sand, sawdust
or a kicking tee approved by the Union.
21.6	SCORING FROM A FREE KICK
(a)	A goal cannot be scored from a free kick.
(b)	The team awarded a free kick cannot score a dropped goal until after the
ball next becomes dead, or until after an opponent has played or touched
it, or has tackled the ball-carrier. This restriction applies also to a scrum
taken instead of a free kick.
21.7	WHAT THE OPPOSING TEAM MUST DO AT A PENALTY KICK
(a) Must run from the mark. The opposing team must immediately run
towards their own goal-line until they are at least 10 metres away from
the mark for the penalty kick, or until they have reached their goal-line if
that is nearer the mark.
(b) Must keep running. Even if the penally kick is taken and the kicker’s
team is playing the ball, opposing players must keep running until they
have retired the necessary distance They must not take part in the game
until they have done so
(c)	Kick taken quickly. If the penalty kick is taken so quickly that
opponents have no opportunity to retire, they will not be penalised for
this However, they must continue to retire as descnbed in 21.7(b) above
or until a team-mate who was 10 metres from the mark has run in front
of them, before they take part in the game.
123
iRB
LAW 21 - PENALTY ANO FREE KICKS
(d)	Interference. The opposing team must not do anything to delay the
penalty kick or obstruct the kicker They must not intentionally take, throw
or kick the ball out of reach of the kicker or the kicker's team-mates
Penalty: Any infringement by the opposing team results in a second
penalty kick, 10 metres in front of the mark for the first kick. This mark
must not be within 5 metres of the goal-line. Any player may take the kick.
The kicker may change the type of kick and may choose to kick at goal.
If the referee awards a second penalty kick, the second penalty kick is
not taken before the referee has made the mark indicating the place of
the penally.
21.8	WHAT OPTIONS THE OPPOSING TEAM HAVE AT A FREE
KICK
(a)	Must run from the mark. The opposing team must immediately run
towards their own goal-line until they are at least 10 metres away from
the mark for the free kick, or until they have reached their goal-line if that
is nearer the mark. If the free kick is in a defending teams in-goal area.
the opposing team must immediately run towards their own goal-line until
they are at least 10 metres away from the mark and not nearer than 5
metres from the goal-line.
(b) Must keep running. Even if the free kick is taken and the kicker's team
is playing the ball, opposing players must keep running until they have
retired the necessary distance They must not take part in the game until
they have done so.
(c)	Kick taken quickly. If the free kick is taken so quickly that opponents
have no opportunity to retire, they will not be penalised for this. However.
they must continue to retire as described in (b) above or until a team-
male who was 10 metres from the mark has run in front of them, before
they take part in the game.
(d)	Interference. The opposing team must not do anything to delay the free
kick or obstruct the kicker. They must not intentionally take, throw or kick
the ball out of reach of the kicker or the kicker’s team-mates.
(e)	Charging the free kick. Once they have retired the necessary distance.
players of the opposing team may charge and try to prevent the kick
being taken. They may charge the free kick as soon as the kicker starts
to approach to kick.
(f)	Preventing the free kick. If the opposing team charge and prevent the
free kick being taken, the kick is disallowed. Play restarts with a scrum at
the mark. The opposing team throw-in the ball.
124
LAW 21 ■ PENALTY AND FREE KICKS
»RB
(g)	Free kick taken in the In-goal. II a free kick has been awarded in the in-
goal or if it has been awarded in the field of play and the player retires to
in-goal to take it. and the opponents charge and prevent the kick from
being taken, a 5-metre scrum is ordered. Pie attacking team throw-in the
ball. If a free kick is taken in the in-goal, an opponent who legitimately
plays it there can score a try.
(n) Charged down. If opponents charge down a free kick in the playing
area, play continues
Penalty: Any infringement by the opposing team results in a second free
kick, awarded 10 metres in front of the mark for the first kick Piis mark
must not be within 5 metres of the goal-line. Any player may take the kick.
If the referee awards a second free kick, the second free kick is not taken
before the referee has made the mark indicating the place of the free
kick.
21.9	CONTRIVED INFRINGEMENTS ATTHE PENALTY KICK
If the referee believes that the kicker's team has contrived an
infringement by their opponents, the referee does not award a further
penalty but allows play to continue.
21.10	CONTRIVED INFRINGEMENTS ATTHE FREE KICK
(a) The kicker must not pretend to kick. As soon as the kicker makes a move
to kick, the opponents may charge.
(b)	If the referee believes that the kicker’s team has contrived an
infringement by their opponents, the referee does not award a further
free kick but allows play to continue.
125
iRB
DURING THE MATCH • IN-GOAL
iRB
INTlRHAnONAl RUGBY COARD
DURING THE MATCH
In-Goal
Law 22 In-Goal
126
LAW 22 • IN-GOAL
iRB
LAW 22 - IN-GOAL
DEFINITIONS
In-goal is part of the ground as defined in Law 1 where the ball may be
grounded by players from either team.
When attacking players are first to ground the ball in the opponents' m-goal. the
attacking players score a try.
When defending players are first to ground the ball in in goal, the defending
players make a touch down.
A defending player who has one foot on the goal-line or in the in-goal who
receives the ball is considered to have both feet in in-goal.
22.1	GROUNDING THE BALL
There are two ways a player can ground the ball
(a)	Player touches the ground with the ball. A player grounds the ball b.
holding the ball and touching the ground with it, in in-goal. ‘Holding
means holding in the hand or hands, or in the arm or arms. No downward
pressure is required.
(b)	Player presses down on the ball. A player grounds the ball when it is
on the ground in the in-goal and the player presses down on it with a
hand or hands, arm or arms, or the front of the player's body from waist
to neck inclusive.
Grounding the ball
127
■RB
LAW 22 - IN-GOAL
22.2	PICKING UP THE BALL
Picking up the ball from the ground is not grounding it A player may pick
up the ball in the in-goal and ground it elsewhere in the m-goal.
22.3	BALL GROUNDED BY AN ATTACKING PLAYER
Try. When an attacking player who is on-side is first to ground the ball in
the opponents’ in-goal, the player scores a try This applies whether an
attacking or a defending player is responsible for the ball being in the in-
goal
22.4	OTHER WAYS TO SCORE A TRY
(a)	Grounded on the goal-line. The goal-line is part of the in-goai If an
attacking player is first to ground the ball on the opponents’ goal-line, a
try is scored.
(b)	Grounded against a goal post. The goal posts and padding
surrounding them are part of the goal-line, which is part of in goal If an
attacking player is first to ground the ball against a goal post or padding.
a try is scored.
Scoring a try - grounded against the goal post
128
LAW 22 • IN-GOAL
iRB
(c)	Pushover try. A scrum or ruck cannot take place in the in-goal. If a
scrum or ruck is pushed into the m-goal. an attacking player may legally
ground the ball as soon as the ball reaches or crosses the goal-line and
a try is scored.
Pushover try
id) Momentum try. If an attacking player with the ball is tackled short of the
goal-line but the players momentum carries the player in a continuous
movement along the ground into the opponents in-goal, and the player is
first to ground the ball, a try is scored.
(e) Tackled near the goal-line. If a player is tackled near Io the opponents'
goal-line so that this player can immediately reach out and ground the
ball on or over the goal line, a try is scored.
(0 This player must not infringe the tackle Law. The tackle Law requires a
tackled player to play the ball immediately. However, the tackled player
may place the ball on the ground in any direction provided it is done
immediately
(g)	In this situation, defending players who are on their feel may legally
prevent the try by pulling the ball from the tackled player's hands or arms.
but must not kick the ball.
129
iRB
LAW 22 - IN-GOAL
(h)	Player In touch or touch-in-goal. If an attacking player is in touch or m
touch-in-goal, the player can score a try by grounding the ball in the
opponents’ in-goal provided the player is not carrying the ball
Player in touch-in goal, not carrying the ball but
grounding the ball and scoring a try
(i)	Penalty try. A penalty try is awarded if a try would probably have been
scored but for foul play by the defending team. A penalty try is awarded
il a try would probably have been scored in a better position but for foul
play by the defending team.
(j)	A penalty try is awarded between the goal posts The defending team
may charge the conversion kick after a penalty try
22.5	BALL GROUNDED BY A DEFENDING PLAYER
(a) Touch down. When defending players are first to ground the ball in their
in-goal, it results in a touch down.
(b)	Player In touch or touch-ln-goal. If defending players are in touch-in-
goal, they can make a touch down by grounding the ball in their in-goal
provided they are not carrying the ball.
(c)	Grounded against a goal post. Tne goal posts and padding
surrounding them are part of the goal-line. If a defending player is first to
ground the ball against a goal post or padding, the result is a touch down.
130
LAW 22 - IN-GOAL
iRB
22.6	SCRUM OR RUCK IS PUSHED INTO IN-GOAL
A scrum or ruck can take place only in the field of play. Therefore, if a
scrum or ruck is pushed across the goal-line, a defending player may
legally ground the ball as soon as the ball reaches or crosses the goal-
line. This results in a touch down.
22.7	RESTARTING AFTER A TOUCH DOWN
(a) When an attacking player sends or carries the ball into the opponents’ in-
goal and it becomes dead there, either because a defender grounded it
or because it went into touch-in-goal or on or over the dead ball line, a
drop-out is awarded
(b)	If an attacking player knocks-on or throws-forward in the field ol play and
the ball goes into the opponents' in-goal and it is made dead there, a
scrum is awarded where the knock-on or throw-forward happened.
(c)	If at a kick-off the ball is kicked into the opponents' in-goal without having
touched or been touched by a player and a defending player grounds it
there or makes it dead without delay, the defending team have two
choices:
To have a scrum formed at the centre, and they throw-in the ball; or
To have the other team kick-off again
(dj If a defending player threw or took the ball into the in-goal, and a
defending player grounded it, and there has been no infringement, play
is restarted by a 5-metre scrum. The position of the scrum is in line w.th
where the ball has been touched down. The attacking side throws in the
ball
22.8	BALL KICKED DEAD IN IN-GOAL
If a team kicks the ball through their opponents' in-goal, into louch-in-
goal or on or over the dead ball line, except by an unsuccessful kick at
goal or attempted dropped goal, the defending team has two choices-
To have a drop-out, or
To have a scrum at the place where the ball was kicked and they throw-
in
131
iRB
LAW 22 - IN-GOAL
22.9	DEFENDING PLAYER IN IN-GOAL
A defending player who has part of one foot in in-goal is considered to
have both feet in in-goal.
22.10	BALL HELD UP IN-GOAL
When a player carrying the ball is held up in the in-goal so that the player
cannot ground the ball, the ball is dead. A 5-metre scrum is formed This
would apply if play similar to a maul takes place in in-goal The attacking
team throws in the ball.
22.11	BALL DEAD IN IN-GOAL
(a) When the ball touches the corner post, the touch-in-goal line or the dead
ball line, or touches anything or anyone beyond those lines, the ball
becomes dead. If the ball was played into in-goal by the attacking team.
a drop-out shall be awarded to the defending team. If the ball was played
into in-goal by the defending team, a 5-metre scrum shall be awarded
and the attacking team throws in the ball.
(b) When a player carrying the ball touches the corner post, the touch-in-
goal line, the dead ball line, or touches the ground beyond those lines,
the ball becomes dead. If the ball was carried into m-goal by the attacking
team, a drop-out shall be awarded to the defending team. If the ball was
carried into in goal by the defending team, a 5-metre scrum shall be
awarded and the attacking team throws in the ball.
(c)	When a player scores a try or makes a touch down, the ball becomes
dead
22.12	ATTACKING INFRINGEMENT WITH SCRUM PENALTY
If an attacking player commits an infringement in in-goal, for which the
penalty is a scrum, for example, a knock-on. play is restarted with a 5-
metre scrum. The scrum is formed in line with the place of the
infringement and the defending team throws in the ball.
22.13	DEFENDING INFRINGEMENT WITH SCRUM PENALTY
If a defending player infringes in in-goal, for which the penalty is a scrum.
for example, a knock-on, play is restarted with a 5-metre scrum The
scrum is formed in line with the place of the infringement and the
attacking team throws in the ball.
132
LAW 22 - IN-GOAL
■RB
22.14	DOUBT ABOUT GROUNDING
II there is doubt about which team first grounded the ball in the in-goal,
play is re-started by a 5 metre scrum, in line with the place where the ball
was grounded. The attacking team throws in the ball
22.15	INFRINGEMENTS IN IN-GOAL
All infringements in the in-goal are treated as if they had taken place in
the field of play.
A knock-on or a throw-forward in the m-goal results in a 5-metre scrum.
opposite the place of infringement.
Penalty: For an infringement, the mark for a penalty kick or free kick
cannot be in the in-goal.
When a penalty kick or free kick is awarded for an infringement in the In-
goal. the mark for the kick is in the field of play. 5 metres from the goal-
line, opposite the place of infringement
22.16	MISCONDUCT OR UNFAIR PLAY IN IN-GOAL
(a) Obstruction by the attacking team. When a player charges or
intentionally obstructs an opponent in the in-goal who has just kicked the
ball, the opponent’s team may choose to take the penalty kick either in
the field of play. 5 metres from the goal-line opposite the place of
infringement, or where the ball landed.
If they make the second choice and the ball lands in or near touch, the
mark for the penalty kick is 15 metres from the touch-line, opposite where
the ball went into touch or where it landed
A try is disallowed and a penally kick awarded if a try would probably not
have been scored but for foul play by the attacking team.
(b) Foul play by the defending team. The referee awards a penalty try if a
try would probably have been scored but for foul play by the defending
team
The referee awards a penalty try if a try would probably have been
scored in a better position but for foul play by the defending team.
A penalty try is awarded between the goal posts. The defending team
may charge the conversion kick after a penalty try.
133
iRB
LAW 22 - iN-GOAL
(c)	Any other foul play. When a player commits any other foul play in the
in-goal while the ball is out of play, the penalty kick is awarded at the
place where the game would otherwise have re-started
Penalty: Penally Kick.
134