Definitions
&
A
Mctual time: Elapsed time including time lost for any reason.
/Advantage: Law 8 - Advantage.
/Assistant referee: Lav/ 6 - Match Officials
/Attacking team: The opponents of the defending team in whose half of the ground play
iss taking place.
B
BSall carrier: A player carrying the ball.
BBeyond or behind or in front of a position: Means with both feet, except where the
context makes that inappropriate.
BBinding: Grasping firmly another player's body between the shoulders and the hips with
tllhe whole arm in contact from hand to shoulder
c
COptain: The captain is a player nominated by the team. Only the captain is entitled to
cconsult the referee during the match and is solely responsible for choosing options
reelating to the referee's decisions.
Cavalry charge: Lav; 10 - Foul Play
Conversion kick: Law 9 - Method of Scoring
Converted: A conversion kick that was successful.
□
□Dangerous play: Law 10 - Foul Play
□Dead: The ball is out of play. This happens when the ball has gone outside the playing
anrea and remained there, or when the referee has blown the whistle to indicate a
stoppage in play, or when a conversion kick has been taken.
DIJead ball line: Law 1 - The Ground.
□Defending team: The team in whose half of the ground play is taking place; their
opponents are the attacking team
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
4
Definitions
Drop kick: The ball is dropped from the hand or hands to the ground and kicked as rt
rises from its first bounce
Drop out: Law 13 - Kick-Off and Restart Kicks.
Dropped goal: Law 9 - Method of Scoring.
F
Field of play: Law 1 - The Ground.
Flanker: Forward player who usually wears jersey No.6 or No.7
Flying wedge: Law 10 - Foul Play.
Foul play. Law 10 - Foul Play.
Free kick: Law 21 - Penalty and Free Kicks. A kick awarded to the non-offending tear
after an infringement by its opponents. Unless a Law states otherwise, a free kick
'warded because of an infringement is awarded at the place of infringement
ront row players: Law 20 - Scrum. The forward players who are the loose-head prop
le hooker and the tight-head prop. These players usually wear jersey No. 1,2 and 3
i espectively.
G
Goal: A player scores a goal by kicking the ball over an opponents' crossbar and
between the goal posts from the field of play, by a place kick or drop-kick. A goal carux
be scored from a kick-off, drop-out or free kick.
Goal line: Law 1 - The Ground.
Grounding the ball: Law 22 - In-Goal.
H
Half-time: The interval between the two halves of the game.
Hand-off: An action taken by a ball carrier to fend off an opponent by using the palm cf
the hand.
Hindmost foot The foot of the hindmost player in a scrum, ruck or maul which is
nearest that player's goal-line.
Hooker: Law 20 - Scrum. The middle front row player in a scrum who usually wears
jersey No. 2.
5
INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
©e-ffisDBtioris
&
nn-field: Away from touch and towards the middle of the field
nn-goal: Law 22 - In-Goal
(Kick: A kick is made by hitting the ball with any part of the leg or foot, except the heel,
rrom the toe to the knee but not including the knee; a kick must move the ball a visible
distance out of the hand, or along the ground
(lick-off: Law 13 - Kick-off and Restart Kicks.
(Inock-on: Law 12 - Knock-on or Throw-forward
.tiffing: Law 19 - Touch and Lineout.
.tine of touch: Law 19 - Touch and Lineout An imaginary line at right angles to the
oouchhne at the place where the ball is thrown in from touch.
JiineouL Lav; 19 - Touch and Lineout
.iiine through the mark or place: Unless stated otherwise, a line parallel to the
oouchllne.
.oong throw: Law 19 - Touch and LineouL
.ooose-head prop: Law 20 - Scrum The left front row player in a scrum who usually
wears jersey No 1
Wl
Vllatch organiser: the organisation responsible for the match which may be a union, a
jrroup of unions or an organisation affiliated to the International Rugby Board.
VI lark: Law 18 - Mark.
Vllaul: Law 17 - Maul.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
2011
6
Definitions

N
Near. Within one metre
0
Obstruction: law 10 - Foul Play.
Offside: Law 11 - Offside and Onside in General Play.
Offside line: An imaginary line across the ground, from one touchline to the other,
parallel to the goal-lines; the position of this line varies according to the Law
Offside under the 10-Metre Law: Law 11 - Offside and Onside in General Play
Onside: Law 11 - Offside and Onside in General Play.
Open or bleeding wound: Law 3 - Number of Players -The Team
Out of play: This happens when the ball or the ball carrier has gone into touch or tox
in-goal, or touched or crossed the dead ball line.
Oversteps: A player steps across a line with one or both feet; the line may be real (for
example, goal-line) or imaginary (for example, offside line).
p
Pass: A player throws the ball to another player; if a player hands tne ball to another
player without throwing it, this is also a pass.
Peeling off: Lav; 19 - Touch and Lineout.
Penalty goal: Law 9 - Method of Sconng.
Penalty kick: Law 21 - Penalty and Free Kicks - A kick awarded to the non-offending
team after an infringement by its opponents. Unless a Law says otherwise, a penalty
kick is awarded at the place of infringement.
Penalty try: Law 10 - Foul Play.
Place kick: The ball is kicked after it has been placed on the ground for that purpose
Placer: A player who holds the ball on the ground for a team-mate to kick.
Played: The ball is played when it is touched by a player
Playing area: Law 1 - The Ground
Playing enclosure: Law 1 - The Ground.
7
INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
Definitions
& ■
Playing time: The time that has been played excluding time lost as defined in
L_aw 5 - Time.
Possession: This happens when a player is carrying the ball or a team has the ball in its
ccontrol, (or example, the ball in one half of a scrum or ruck is in that team's possession.
Pre-gripping: Law 19 - Touch and Lineout Gripping a team-mate in the lineout prior to
tlhe ball being thrown in.
Prop: Law 20 - Scrum. A front row player to the left or right of the hooker in a scrum.
TThese players usually wear jersey No's. 1 and 3.
Punt: The ball is dropped from the hand or hands and kicked before it touches the
gground
Pushover try: Law 22 - In-Goal.
R
Peceiver: Law 19 - Touch and Lineout.
Ped Card: A card, red in colour shown to a player who has been sent off for
contravening Lav/10 - Foul Play, Law 4 5(c).
Peferee: Law 6 - Match Officials.
Pepeated infringements: Law 10 - Foul Play.
Replacements: Law 3 • Number of Players - The Team.
Puck: Law 16 - Ruck.
s
Sanction: The punitive action taken by the referee against an infringing player or team
Scrum: Law 20 - Scrum This happens when players from each team come together in
sacrum formation so that play can be started by throwing the ball into the scrum.
Scrum half: A player nominated to throw the ball into a scrum who usually wears jersey
NMo. 9.
Sin bin: The designated area in which a temporarily suspended player must remain for
110 minutes playing time.
Substitutes: Law 3 - Number of Players - The Team.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
Definitions
T I!
Tackle: Law 15 - Tackle Ball Carrier Brought to the Ground ■-
Team-mate: Another player of the same team. *
Temporarily suspended: Law 10 - Foul Play f
The plan: Law 1 - The Ground
The 22: Law 1 - The Ground.
Throw-forward: Law 12 - Knock-On or Throw-Forward tf-
Throw-in: The act of the player who throws the ball into a scrum or a lineout.
Tight-head prop: Law 20 - Scrum The right front row player in a scrum who usually r
wears jersey No. 3. W
Touch: Law 19 - Touch and Lineout
Touch down: Law 22 - In-goal /
Touchline: Law 1 - The Ground. f
Touch-in-goal line: Law 1 - The Ground.
Touch judge: Law 6 - Match Officials.
Try. Law 9 - Method of Scoring >'
. i
Uncontested scrum: An uncontested scrum is the same as a normal scrum, except t W
the teams do not compete for the ball; the team throwing in the ball must win it, and K
neither team is allowed to push. ‘
Union: The controlling body under whose jurisdiction the match is played, for an
international match it means the International Rugby Board or a Committee of the
Y I
Yellow card: A card, yellow in colour shown to a player who has been cautioned and
temporarily suspended for 10 minutes playing time.
9
INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
BEFORE THE MATCH
ILaw 1 The Ground
ILaw 2 The Ball
ILaw 3 Number of Players - The Team
ILaw 4 Players’ Clothing
ILaw 5 Time
ILaw 6 Match Officials
Law H The Ground
The Plan
ulZ£6u!p.W*a M*
25 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
Law 1 The Ground
Field of play
Playing enclosure
In-goal
Playing area
Perimeter area
The 22
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
Law 1 The Ground
DEFINITIONS
The Ground is the total area shown on the plan. The Groj
The Field of play is the area (as shown on the plan) bet
the touchlines. These lines are not part of the field of plaj
hides:
e goal lines ar^
The Playing Area is the field of play and the in-goal area
plan). The touchlines, touch-in-goal lines and dead ball llni
playing area.
iwn on the
>t part of the
not less thar;

The Playing Enclosure is the playing area and a space art
metres where practicable, which is known as the perimeter I
In-goal is the area between the goal line and the dead ball j
touch-in-goal lines. It includes the goal line but It does not li
line or the touch-in-goal lines.
‘The 22’ is the area between the goal line and the 22-metrelipe, Including the
metre line but excluding the goal line.
’he Plan, including all the words and figures on it, is part of the Laws.
between th*
dead ba2
1.1	SURFACE OFTHE PLAYING ENCLOSURE
(a)	Requirement Pie surface must be sale to play on at all times.
(b)	Type of surface. Pie surface should be grass but may also be sand, clay, snow or artjficia
grass. The game may be played on snow, provided the snow and underlying surface are
sale to play on. It shall not be a permanently hard surface such as concrete or asphalt ta
the case of artificial grass surfaces, they must conform to IRB Regulation 22.
1.2	REQUIRED DIMENSIONS FOR THE PLAYING ENCLOSURE
(a)	Dimensions. The field of play does not exceed 100 metres in length and 70 metres in
width. Each in-goal does not exceed 22 metres in length and 70 metres in width.
27 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
]Law 1 The Ground
&
(b)	The length and breadth of the playing area are to be as near as possible to the dimensions
indicated. All the areas are rectangular.
(c)	The distance from the goal line to the dead ball line should be not less than 10 metres
where practicable.
tl.3 LINES ON THE PLAYING ENCLOSURE
(a)	Solid Lines
The dead ball lines and touch-in goal lines, both of which are outside the m-goal areas.
The goal lines, which are within the in-goal areas but outside the field of play,
The 22-metre lines; which are parallel to the goal lines
The hall way line which is parallel to the goal lines; and
The touchlines which are outside the field of play
(b)	Broken Lines
The 10 metre lines, which run from one touchline to the other, are 10 metres from each
side of the half way line and parallel to it. and
The 5-metre lines, which run from one 5-melre dash line to the other, are 5 metres from
and parallel to the touchlines.
The 15-metre lines, which link the 5-metre dash lines, are 15 metres from and parallel to
the touchlines.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
28
Law 1 The Ground
(c)	Dash lines
(i)	Six dash Ines, each being I metre long. 5 metres from and parallel to each goal tr^
positioned 5 metres and 15 metres from each touchline and in front of each goal post
(ii)	Two dash lines. 5 metres long. 15 metres from each of the touchlines, which start a
goal line and end at the 5-metre dash line.
(iii)	One dash line of 0.5 metre long intersects the centre of the half way line
All the lines must be suitably marked out according to the Plan.
Goal posts
29 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
Law 1 The Ground
H .4____DIMENSIONS FOR GOAL POSTS AND CROSSBAR
(a)	The distance between the two goal posts is 5 6 metres
(b)	The crossbar Is placed between the two goal posts so that its top edge is 3.0 metres from
the ground.
(c)	The minimum height ol the goal posts is 3.4 metres
(d)	When padding is attached to the goal posts the distance from the goal line to the external
edge of the padding must not exceed 300mm
1.5	FLAG POSTS
(a) There are 14 flag posts v/ith flags, each with a minimum height of 1.2 metres above the
ground.
(b) Flag posts must be positioned at the intersection of touch-m-goal lines and the goal lines
and at the intersection of the touch-m-goal lines and the dead ball lines These eight flag
posts are outside the in-goal area and do not form part ol the playing area
(c)	Flag posts must be positioned in line with the 22-metre lines and the half way line, 2 metres
outside the touchlines and within the playing enclosure
I..6 OBJECTIONS TO THE GROUND
(a) II either team has objections about the ground or the way it is marked out they must tell the
referee before the match starts.
Co) The referee will attempt to resolve the issues but must not start a match if any part of the
ground is considered to be dangerous
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
30
Law 2 The Ball
2.1	SHAPE
The bail must be oval and made of four panels
2.2	DIMENSIONS
Length in line
Circumference (end to end)
Circumference (in width)
280 - 300 millimetres
740 - 770 millimetres
580 - 620 millimetres
2.3	MATERIALS
Leather or suitable synthetic material. It may be treated to make it water resistant and
easier to grip
31 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
Law 2 The Ball
2.4	WEIGHT
410 - 460 grams
2.5	AIR PRESSURE AT THE START OF PLAY
65.71-68.75 kilopascals, or 0.67-0.70 kilograms per square centimetre, or 9 5-10.0 lbs per
square inch
2.6	SPARE BALLS
Spare balls may be available during a match, but a team must not gain or attempt to gain
an unfair advantage by using them or changing them.
12.7 SMALLER BALLS
Balls ol different sizes may be used for matches between young players.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
32
Law 3 Number of Players - The Team

plus any
A Team. A team consists of fifteen players who start
authorised replacements and/or substitutes.
Replacement. A player who replaces an injured team
Substitute. A player who replaces a team-mate for ta<

Maximum: each team must have no more than fifteen players on the playing area durir-;
P’ay.
3.2 TEAM WITH MORE THAN THE PERMITTED N

Objection: al any time before or during a match a team may make an objection to the
referee about the number of players in their opponents' team As soon as the referee
that a team has too many players, the referee must order the captain of that team to rei
the number appropnately. The score at the time of the objection remains unaltered
Sanction: Penalty at the place where the game would restart
3.3

A Union may authorise matches to be played with fewer than fifteen players in each tea*
When that happens, all the Laws of the Game apply except that each team must have z.
least five players in the scrum at all times.
Exception: matches between teams of Seven-a-side are an exception. These matches -
covered by the Seven-a-side Variations to the Laws of the Game.
33 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
Law 3 Number of Players - The Team
&
IOMINATEDAS SUBSTITUTES
For international matches a Union may nominate up to seven replacements/substitutes.
For other matches, the Union with jurisdiction over the match decides how many
replacements/substitutes may be nominated to a maximum of seven (subject to Law 3.14
when it may be eight).
A team can substitute up to two front row players (subject to Law 3 14 when it may be
three) and up to live other players. Substitutions may only be made when the ball is dead
and with the permission of the referee.
(a)	The table below indicates the numbers ol suitably trained and experienced players available
for the front row when nominating different numbers of players
	Number of suitably trained and experienced players
15 or less	Three players who can play m the front row
16.17 or 18	Four players who can play in the front row
19. 20,21 or 22	Five players who can play in the front row
(Union Specific Variations Law 3 14) 22 or 23	Six players who can play in the front row
(b)	Each player in the front row and any potential replacement(s) must be suitably trained and
experienced.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
34
Law 3 Number of Players - The Team
(c)	When 19,20,21 or 22 players are nominated in a team there must be five players who car
play in the front row to ensure that on the first occasion that a replacement hooker is
required, and on the First occasion that a replacement prop forward is required, the team
can continue to play safety with contested scrums
(d)	The replacement of a front row forward must come from suitably trained and experienced
players who started the match or from the nominated replacements
3.6	SENT OFF FOR FOUL PLAY
A player sent off for foul play must not be replaced or substituted. For an exception to tns
Lav/, refer to Law 3.13.
3.7	PERMANENT REPLACEMENT
A player may be permanently replaced if injured. If the player is permanently replaced, F-
p'ayer must not return and play in that match. The replacement of the injured player rrrxt
be made when the ball is dead and with the permission of the referee
3.8	THE DECISION FOR PERMANENT REPLACEMEI
(a)	When a national representative team is playing in a match, a player may be replaced or.'/
when, in the opinion of a doctor, the player is so injured that it would be unwise lor that
player to continue play .ng in that match
(b)	In other matches, where a Union has given explicit permission, an injured player may be
replaced on the advice of a medically trained person If none is present, that player may b
replaced if the referee agrees
35 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
Law 3	Number of Players - The Team (gp) ■
3.9	THE REFEREE’S POWER TO STOP AN INJURED PLAYER FROM
________CONTINUING ________________________
H the referee decides - with or without the advice of a doctor or other medically qualified
person - that a player is so Injured that the player should slop playing, the referee may
order that player Io leave the playing area The referee may also order an injured player Io
leave the field in order to be medically examined.
3.10	TEMPORARY REPLACEMENT
(a)	When a player leaves the field to nave bleeding controlled and/or have an open wound
covered, that player may be temporanly replaced If the player who has been temporarily
replaced does not return to the field of play within 15 minutes (actual time) of leaving If
playing area, the replacement becomes permanent and the replaced player must not re
to the field of play.
(o) If the temporary replacement is injured, that player may also be replaced
(c)	If the temporary replacement is sent off for foul play, the replaced player may not return to
the field of play
(d)	If the temporary replacement is cautioned and temporarily suspenoed, the replaced player
may not return to the field of play until after the period of suspension
3.11	PLAYER WISHING TO REJOIN THE MATCH
(a)	A player who has an open or bleeding wound must leave the playing area The player must
not return until the bleeding is controlled and the wound has been covered
(b)	A player who leaves a match because of Injury or any other reason must not rejoin the
match until the referee permits the player to return. The referee must not let a player rejoin
a match until the ball is dead
(c)	If a player rejoins or a replacement/substitute joins the match without the referee's
permission, and the referee believes the player did so to help that player's team or obstruct
the opposing team, the referee penalises the player for misconduct
Sanction: A penalty kick is awarded at the place where play would restart
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
36
Law 3 Number of Players - The Team
3.12	SUBSTITUTED PLAYERS REJOINING THE MATCH_______________
(a)	II a p’ayer is substituted. that p’ayer must not return and play in that match, even to rep*aa
an injured player
Exception 1: a substituted player may replace a player with an open or bleeding wound.
Exception 2: a substituted player may replace a front row player when injured, tempers'
suspended or sent off unless the referee has ordered uncontesled scrums prior to me
which led to the front row player leaving the field of play and the team has used all the
permitted replacements and substitutions.
(b)	II uncontested scrums have been ordered and there is an injury to a front row player whc’
requires that player to be replaced and there is a front row player available to replace
player then the front row player replacement must be used rather than players other tnr
front row replacements.
h 3 FRONT ROW FORWARD SENT OFF OR TEMPOI
OR INJURED
(a)	If after a front row player has been sent off or during the time a front row player is
temporanly suspended, and there are no further front row players available from the
nominated team, then uncontested scrums will be ordered. It is not the responsibility o*
referee to determine the suitability of trained front row replacements nor their availab I "• -
this is a team responsibility
(b)	After a front row player is sent off or during the time a front row player is temporanly
suspended the referee, upon awarding the next scrum, will ask that player's captain
whether or not the team nas another player on the field of play who is suitably trained to
play in the front row. If not. the captain chooses any player from that team who then
leave the field of play and be replaced by a suitably trained front row player from the tea"
replacements. The captain may do this immediately prior to the next scrum or after anc-T-
player has been tned in the front row.
(c)	When a period of temporary suspension ends and a front row player returns to the field cf
play, the replacement front row player leaves the field of play and tne nominated player t~
left the field of play for the penod of the suspension may resume playing in the match.
37 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
Law 3 Number of Players - The Team
&
(a)	Furthermore, if because of sending off or injury, a team cannot provide enough suitably
trained front row players, the match continues with uncontested scrums.
(e)	When the referee orders uncontested scrums during a match, as a result of a team not
having suitably trained and experienced front row players in compliance with Law, the
referee will report the matter to the Match Organiser.
(I) When a team does not have suitably trained front row players prior to the match such that
contested scrums cannot take place the referee will order uncontested scrums. The referee
will report the matter to the Match Organiser
(g) A Match Organiser may determine within competition rules that a match may not
commence in the event of suitably trained and experienced players not being available prior
to a match.
(a)	A Union may implement rolling substitutions at defined levels of the Game within its
jurisdiction. The number of substitutions must not exceed twelve The administration and
rules relating to rolling substitutions are the responsibility of the Union having jurisdiction
(b)	A Union or Unions, where a match or competition is played between teams from two or
more Unions, may implement variations to Law 3.4 for matches below international level as
set out in (c) and/or (d) below
(c)	When 22 or 23 players are nominated in a team there must be sufficient front row players
to play at hooker, tight-head prop and loose-head prop who are suitably trained and
experienced to ensure that on the first occasion that a replacement in any front row position
is required, the team can continue to play safely with contested scrums.
(d)	A provision may be introduced that where uncontested scrums are ordered as a result of
there being no suitably trained and experienced front row replacement for any reason, the
team concerned shall not be entitled to replace the player whose departure caused
uncontested scrums.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
38
Law 4 Players' Clothing
i DEFINITIONS
Players’ clothing is anything players wear.
A player wears a jersey, shorts and underwear, socks and
Detailed information relating to the permitted specificatioi
maybe found in IRB Specifications (Regulation 12).
ilng and si
4.1	ADDITIONAL ITEMS OF CLOTHING	_________
(a)	A piayer may wear supports made of elasticated or compressible materials which must K
washable.
(b)	A piayer may wear shin guards which conform with IRB Specifications (Regulation 12).
(c)	A player may wear ankle supports worn under socks, not extending higher than one third d
the length of the shin and, if rigid, from material other than metal
(d)	A player may wear mitts (fingerless gloves) which must conform to IRB Specifications
(Regulation 12).
(e)	A piayer may wear shoulder pads which must bear the IRB Approval Mark (Regulation 12,
(f)	A player may wear a mouth guard or dental protector
(g)	A player may wear headgear which must bear the IRB Approval Mark (Regulation 12).
(n) A player may wear bandages and/or dressings to cover or protect any injury.
(i) A player may wear thin tape or other similar material as support and/or to prevent injury.
39 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
Law 4 Players' Clothing
&
Besides the previous items, women may wear chest pads which must bear the IRB Approval
Mark (Regulation 12)
(a)	Sluds of players’ boots must conform with the IRB Specifications (Regulation 12)
(b)	Moulded rubber multi-studded soles are acceptable provided they have no sharp edges or
ridges
(a) A player must not wear any item that is contaminated by blood.
(b)	A player must not wear any item that is sharp or abrasive
(c)	A player must not wear any items containing buckles, clips, rings, hinges, zippers, screws.
bolts or rigid material or projection not otherwise permitted under this Lav/
(d)	A player must not wear jewellery such as rings or earrings.
(e)	A player must not wear gloves.
(I) A player must not wear shorts with padding sewn into them
(g) A player must not wear any other item which does not conform with the IRB Specifications
for such clothing (Regulation 12).
(h)	A player must not wear any item that is normally permitted by Law, but. in the referee s
opinion that Is liable Io cause injury to a player.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
40
Law 4 Players’ Clothing
(i)	A player must not wear a single stud at the toe of the boot
0) A player must not wear communication devices within that player's clothing or attached to
the body.
(k) A player must not wear any additional item of clothing that does not conform to IRB
Regulation 12
4.5	INSPECTION OF PLAYERS' CLOTHING_______
(a)	The referee or the touch judges appointed by or under the authority of the match organs^
must inspect the players' clothing and studs for conformity to this Law.
(b)	The referee has power to decide at any time, before or during the match, that part of a
player’s clothing is dangerous or illegal If the referee decides that clothing is dangero-s a
illegal the referee must order the player to remove it. The player must not take part in the
match unbl the items of clothing are removed
(c)	If, at an inspection before the match, the referee or a touch judge tells a player that an fe"
banned under this Law is being worn, and the player is subsequently found to be wearh;
that item on the playing area, that player is sent off for misconduct.
Sanction: A penalty kick is awarded at the place where play is restarted.
4.6	WEARING OTHER CLOTHING
The referee must not allow any player to leave the playing area to change items of cloth ■:
unless these are bloodstained.
For more information on provisions relating to players's dress, see IRB Regulation 12 at
http://www.irbplayerwellare.coin/reg12
41 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
LsiW S Time
5.1	DURATION OF A MATCH
A match lasts no longer than 80 minutes plus time lost, extra time and any special
conditions. A match is divided into two halves each of not more than forty minutes playing
time
After half-time the teams change ends. There is an interval of not more than 15 minutes.
The length of the interval is decided by the match organiser, the Union or the recognised
body which has jurisdiction over the game During the interval the teams, the referee and
the touch judges may leave the playing enclosure.
5.3	TIME KEEPING
The referee keeps the time but may delegate the duty to either or both the touch judges
and/or the official time-keeper, in which case the referee signals to them any stoppage of
time or time lost In matches without an official time-keeper, if the referee is in doubt as to
the correct time the referee consults either or both the touch judges and may consult others
but only if the touch judges cannot help
5.4	TIME LOST
Time lost may be due to the following.
(a)	Injury. The referee may stop play for not more than one minute so that an injured player
can be treated, or for any other permitted delay.
The referee may allow play to continue while a medically trained person treats an injured
player in the playing area or the player may go to the touchline for treatment
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
42
Law 5 Time
If a player is seriously injured and needs to be removed from the field of play, the referee
has the discretion to allow the necessary time to have the injured player removed from te
lield-of-play.
(b)	Replacing players’ clothing. When the ball is dead, the referee allows time for a player D
replace or repair a badly tom jersey, shorts or boots Time is allowed for a player to re-te a
boot-lace
(c)	Replacement and substitution of players. Time is allowed when a player is replaced w
substituted.
(d)	Referee consulting with assistant referee(s) or other officials. Time is allowed for
consultations between referee and assistant referees or other officials
5.5	MAKING UP FOR TIME LOST
Any playing time lost is made up in the same hall of the match
5.6	PLAYING EXTRA TIME
A match may last more than eighty minutes if the Match Organiser has authorised the
playing of extra time in a drawn match in a knock-out competition.
5.7	OTHER TIME REGULATIONS
(a)	In international matches, play always lasts eighty minutes plus lost time.
(b)	In non-intemational matches a Union may decide the length of a match
(c)	If the Union does not decide, the teams agree on the length of a match. If they cannot agree
the referee decides.
43 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
Law 5 Time
(d)	The referee has the power to end the match at any time, if the referee believes that play
should not continue because it would be dangerous.
(e)	If time expires and the ball is not dead, or an awarded scrum or lineout has not been
completed, the referee allows play to continue until the next time that the ball becomes
dead The ball becomes dead when the referee would have awarded a scrum, lineout, an
option to the non-infringing team, drop out or after a conversion or successful penalty kick
at goal. If a scrum has to be reset, the scrum has not been completed If time expires and a
mark, free kick or penally kick is then awarded, the referee allows play to continue
(f)	If time expires after a try has been scored the referee allows time for the conversion kick to
be taken
(g)	When weather conditions are exceptionally hot and/or humid, the referee, at his discretion.
will be permitted to allow one water break in each half This water break should be no
longer than one minute. Time lost should be added on at the end of each half The waler
break should normally be taken after a score or when the ball is out of play near the half
way line.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
44
Law 6 Match Officials
)EI
Every match is under the control of Match Officials whC
and two touch judges or assistant referees. Additional p
by the match organisers may include the reserve referee
referee, an official to assist the referee In making declsioi
devices, the time keeper, the match doctor, the team doc
members of the teams and the ball persons.
A touch judge may be appointed by a match organiser or'
match and is responsible for signalling, touch, touch In-gc
otherwise of kicks at goal.

of the referee
as authorised
jserve assistant
ng technologies
‘non-playing
tvolved in a
ie success or
1

An assistant referee may be appointed by a match organise^aneHs responsible
for signalling, touch, touch in-goal, the success or otherwise1^ kicks at goal and
indicating foul play. An assistant referee will also provide as&stapce to the referee
in the performance of any of the referee’s duties as directed’Ey the referee.
I.A
REFEREE
BEFORE THE MATCH
6.A.1 APPOINTING THE REFEREE
The referee is appointed by the match organiser If no referee has been appointed the two
teams may agree upon a referee. If they cannot agree, the home team appoints a referee
6.A.2 REPLACING THE REFEREE
If the referee is unable to complete the match, the referee's replacement is appointed
according to the instructions of the match organiser. If the match organiser has given no
instructions, the referee appoints the replacement. If the referee cannot do so, the home
team appoints a replacement
45 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
Law 6 Match Officials

6.A.3 DUTIES OF THE REFEREE BEFORE THE MATCH
(a)	Toss. The referee organises the loss One of the captains tosses a coin and the other
captain calls to see who wins the toss. The winner of the toss decides whether to kick off or
to choose an end. If the winner of the toss decides to choose an end. the opponents must
kick off and vice versa.
DURING THE ; > :CH
6.A.4 THE DUTIES OF THE REFEREE IN THE PLAYING ENCLOSURE
(a) The referee is the sole judge of fact and of Law during a match. The referee must apply
fairly all the Laws of the Game in every match.
(b)	The referee keeps the time.
(c)	The referee keeps the score.
(d)	The referee gives permission to the players to leave the playing area.
(e)	The referee gives permission to the replacements or substitutes to enter the playing area.
(f)	The referee gives permission to the team doctors or medically trained persons or their
assistants to enter the playing area, as and when permitted by the Law.
(g)	The referee gives permission to each of the coaches to enter the playing area at half-time to
attend to their teams during the interval
6.A.5 REFEREE ALTERING A DECISION
The referee may alter a decision when a touch judge has raised the flag to to signal touch
The referee may alter a decision when an assistant referee has raised the flag Io signal
touch or an act of foul play.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
46
Law 6 Match Officials
6.A.6 REFEREE CONSULTING WITH OTHERS	_____
(a) The referee may consult with assistant referees in regard to matters relating to their dirties.
the Law relating to foul play or timekeeping and may request assistance related to other
aspects of the referee's duties including the adjudication of offside.
(bj A match organiser may appoint an official who uses technological devices. If the referee is
unsure when making a decision in in-goal involving a try being scored or a touch down, that
off.cial may be consulted
The official may be consulted if the referee is unsure when making a decision in in-goal
with regard to the scoring of a try or a touch down when foul play in in-goal may have been
involved.
The official may be consulted in relation to the success or otherwise of kicks at goal
The official may be consulted if the referee or assistant referees are unsure if a player was
or was not in touch when attempting to ground the ball to score a try.
The official may be consulted if the referee or assistant referees are unsure when making a
decision relating to touch-m-goal and the ball being made dead if a score may have
occurred.
(c)	A match organiser may appoint a bmekeeper who will signify the end of each half
(d)	The referee must not consult with any other persons
47 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
LsiW 6 Match Officials
&
(a) The referee must carry a whistle and blow tne whistle to indicate the beginning and end of
each half of the match
(b)	The referee has the power to blow the whistle and stop play at any time.
(c)	The referee must blow the whistle to indicate a score, or a touch down
(d)	The referee must blow the whistle to stop play because of an infringement or for an offence
of foul play. When the referee cautions or sends off the offender, the referee must whistle a
second time when the penalty kick or penalty try is awarded.
(e)	The referee must blow the whistle when the ball has gone out of play, or when it has
become unplayable, or when a penalty is awarded.
(f)	The referee must blow the whistle when it would be dangerous to let play continue or wh»=
it is probable that a player has been seriously injured.
6.A.8 THE REFEREE AND INJURY
If the referee stops play because a player has been injured, and there has been no
infringement and the ball has not been made dead, play restarts with a scrum. The team last
in possession throws in the ball If neither team was m possession, the attacking team throws
in the ball
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
48
Law 6 Match Officials

6A9 THE BALL TOUCHING THE REFEREE
(a) U the ball or the ball earner touches the referee and neither learn gains an advantage, p'a/
continues. If either learn gains an advantage in the field of play, the referee orders a scrum
and the team that last played the ball has the throw-in
(b) 11 either team gains an advantage in in-goal, if the ball is m possession of an attacking
player the referee awards a try where the contact took place.
(c)	If either team gains an advantage in in-goal, if the ball is in possession of a defending
player, the referee awards a touch down where the contact took place
6.A.10 THE BALL IN IN-GOAL TOUCHED BY NON-P

The referee judges what would have happened next and awards a try or a touch down at
tne place where the ball was touched.
AFTER THE MATCH
.11 SCORE
The referee communicates the score to the teams and to the match organiser.
6A12 PLAYER SENT-OFF____________________________________
II a player is sent off the referee gives the match organiser a written report on the foul p'ay
infringement as soon as possib'e.
49 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
Law 6 Match Officials
&
6.B TOUCH JUDGES AND ASSISTANT REFEREES
BEFORE THE MATCH
6.B.1 APPOINTING TOUCH JUDGES AND ASSISTANT REFEREES
There are two touch judges or two assistant referees for every match. Unless they have
been appointed by or under the authority of the match organiser, each team provides a
touch judge
6.B.2 REPLACING A TOUCH JUDGE OR ASSISTANT REFEREE
The match organiser may nominate a person to act as a replacement for the referee, the
touch judges or assistant referees. This person is called the reserve touch judge or reserve
assistant referee and stands in the perimeter area.
6.B.3 CONTROL OF TOUCH JUDGES AND ASSISTANT REFEREES
The referee has control over both touch judges or assistant referees The referee may tell
them what their duties are. and may overrule their decisions. If a touch judge is
unsatisfactory the referee may ask that the touch judge be replaced II the referee believes
a touch judge is guilty of misconduct, the referee has power to send the touch judge off and
make a report to the match organiser
DURING THE MATCH
6.B.4 WHERE THE TOUCH JUDGES OR ASSISTANT REFEREES SHOULD BE
(a) There is one touch judge or assistant referee on each side of the ground The touch judge or
assistant referee remains In touch except when judging a kick at goal When judging a kick
at goal the touch judges or assistant referees stand in in-goal behind the goal posts.
(b) An assistant referee may enter the playing area when reporting an offence of dangerous
play or misconduct to the referee The assistant referee may do this only at the next
stoppage in play.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
2011
50
Law 6 Match Officials
6.B.5 TOUCH JUDGE OR ASSISTANT REFEREE SIGNALS
(a) Each touch judge or assistant reteree carries a flag or something similar with which to
sgnal decisions.
lb) Signalling result of kick at goal. When a
conversion kick or a penalty kick at goal is
being taken, the touch judges or assistant
referees must help the referee by signalling
the result of the kick. One touch judge or
assistant referee stands al or behind each
goal post If the ball goes over the crossbar
and between the posts, the touch judges or
assistant referees raise the Hags to indicate
a goal.
Kick at goal successful
(c)
Signalling touch. When the ball or the ball
canier has gone into touch, the touch judge
or assistant referee must hold up the Hag.
The touch judge or assistant referee must
stand at the place of the throw-in and point
to the team entitled to throw in. The touch
judge or assistant referee must also signal
when the ball or the ball carrier has gone
into touch-in-goal
51 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
Law 6 Match Officials
(d)	When to lower the flag. When the ball is thrown in. the touch judge or assistant referee
must lower the flag, with the following exceptions.
Exception 1: When the player throwing in puts any part of either foot in the field of play, the
touch judge or assistant referee keeps the flag up
Exception 2: When the team not entitled to throw in has done so. the touch judge or
assistant referee keeps the flag up.
Exception 3: When, at a quick throw-in, the ball that went into touch is replaced by another
ball, or after it went into touch or it has been touched by anyone except the player who
takes the throw-in. the touch judge or assistant referee keeps the flag up.
(e)
(0
It is for the referee, and not the touch judge or assistant referee, to decide whether or not
the ball was thrown in from the correct place
Signalling foul play. An assistant referee
signals that foul play or misconduct has
been seen by holding the flag horizontally
and pointing infield at right angles to the
touchline
Signalling foul play
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
2011
52
Law 6 Match Officials
___________
___________
6.B.6 AFTER SIGNALLING FOUL PUV____________
A match organiser may give authonty to the assistant referee to signal lor foul play II an
assistant referee signals foul play, the assistant referee must stay in touch and continue to
carry out all the other duties until the next stoppage in play At the invitation of the referee
the assistant referee may then enter the playing area Io report the offence to the referee.
The referee may then take whatever action is needed Any sanction awarded will be in
accordance with Law 10 - Foul Play.
AFTER THE MATCH
_________
___________________________
6.B.7 PLAYER SENT-Ol_________________________	________
II a player has been sent-off following an assistant referee's signal and report to the referee,
the assistant referee submits a written report about the incident to the referee as soon as
possible after the match and provides it to the match organiser
ADDITIONAL PERSONS
_________________________________________
__________________________________________
When a reserve touch judge or assistant referee is appointed, the referee's authority
regarding replacements and substitutions may be delegated to the reserve touch judge or
reserve assistant referee
____________
6.C.2 THOSE WHO MAY ENTER THE PLAYING AREA
The match doctor and the non-playing members of the team may enter the playing area as
authorised by the referee.
___________________
6.C.3 OMITS TO ENTERING THE PLAYING ARI___________________
In the case of injury, these persons may enter the playing area while play continues, provided
they have permission from the referee Otherwise, they enter only when the ball is dead.
53 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
[HUI
Method of playing the match
7	Mode of Play
8	Advantage
9	Method of Scoring
10	Foul Play
11	Offside and Onside in General Play
12	Knock-on or Throw forward
Law 7 Mode of Play
$
PLAYING A MATCH
A match is started by a kick-off
After tne kick-ott, any player who is onside may take the ball and run with it
Any player may throw it or kick it
Any player may give the ball to another player.
Any player may tackle, hold or push an opponent Holding the ball
Any player may fall on the ball.
Any player may take part in a scrum, ruck, maul or lineout.
Any player may ground the ball in in-goal.
A ball carrier may hand-off an opponent
Whatever a player does must be in accordance with the Laws of the Game.
55 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
Law 8 Advantage
DEFINITI
The Law of ads
to make play m
are encourag
When the resi
gain an adv
ecedence over most other Laws and its purpose Is
ith fewer stoppages for infringements. Players
histle despite infringements by their opponents.
ent by one team is that their opposing team may
s not whistle immediately for the infringement.

lCTICE
(a)	The referee is sole judge of whether or not a team has gained an advantage The referee
has wide discretion when making decisions.
(b)	Advantage can be either territorial or tactical.
(c)	Territorial advantage means a gain in ground.
(d)	Tactical advantage means freedom for the non-offending team to play the ball as they wish.
8.2	WHEN ADVANTAGE DOES NOT ARISE
The advantage must be clear and real A mere opportunity to gain advantage is not enough
If the non-offending team does not gain an advantage, the referee blows the whistle and
brings play back to the place of infringement
8.3	WHEN THE ADVANTAGE LAW IS NOT APPLIED
(a)	Referee contact Advantage must not be applied when the ball, or a player carrying it
touches the referee
(b)	Ball out of tunnel. Advantage must not be applied when the ball comes out of either end of
the tunnel at a scrum without having been played
r i
2011
56
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
Law 8 Advantage
(c)	Wheeled scrum. Advantage must not be applied when the scrum is wheeled through men
than 90 degrees (so that the middle line has passed beyond a position parallel to the
touchline).
(d)	Collapsed scrum. Advantage must not be applied when a scrum collapses. The referee
must blow the whistle immediately.
(e)	Player lifted in the air. Advantage must not be applied when a player in a scrum is lifted n
the air or forced upwards out of the scrum The referee must blow the whistle immediate1/
(0 After the ball has been made dead. Advantage cannot be played after the ball has been
made dead
(a)	When there is more than one Infringement by the same team
• If advantage cannot be applied to the second offence the referee applies the appropriate
sanebon Io the first offence
• If advantage is played for the second offence but none accrues, the referee applies the
appropriate sanebon for the second offence
• If either sanebon is for foul play, the referee applies the appropriate sanction for that
offence.
(b)	If advantage is being played following an infringement by one team and then the other team
commit an infringement, the referee blows the whistle and applies the sanctions associated
with the first infringement.
57 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
Law © Method of Scoring
9.A SCORING POINTS
9.A.1 POINTS VALUES
Try. When an attacking player is first to ground the
ball in the opponents' in-goal, a try is scored
VALUE
5 points
Penalty Try. If a player would probably have scored a
try but for foul play by an opponent, a penalty try is
awarded between the goal posts.
Conversion Goal. When a player scores a try it gives
the player's team the right to attempt to score a goal
by taking a kick at goal; this also applies to a penalty
try This kick is a conversion kick, a conversion kick
can be a place kick or a drop kick.
Penalty Goal. A player scores a penalty goal by
kicking a goal from a penalty kick.
Dropped Goal. A player scores a dropped goal by
kicking a goal from a drop kick in general play. The
team awarded a free kick cannot score a dropped
goal until the ball next becomes dead, or until an
opponent has played or touched it. or has tackled the
ball carrier. This restriction applies also to a scrum
taken instead of a free kick.
5 points
2 points
3 points
3 points
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
2011
58
Law 9 Method of Scoring
9.A.2 KICK AT GOAL - SPECIAL CIRCUMSTANCI
(a)	II after the Dall is kicked, it touches the ground or any team-mate of the kicker, a goal
cannot be scored.
(b)	If the ball has crossed the crossbar a goal is scored, even if the wind blows it back into tne
field of play.
(c)	If an opponent commits an offence as the kick at goal is being taken, but neverthless the
kick is successful, advantage is played and the score stands.
(d)	Any player who touches the ball in an attempt Io prevent a penalty goal being scored is
illegally touching the ball.
Sanction: Penalty kick
9.B CONVERSION KICK
! 9.B.1 TAKING A CONVERSION KICK
(a)	The kicker must use the ball that was in play unless it is defective.
Co) The kick is taken on a line through the place where tne try was scored
(c)	A placer is a learn-mate who holds the ball for the kicker to kick
(d)	The kicker may place the ball directly on the ground or on sand, sawdust or a kicking tee
approved by the Union.
59 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
Law © Method of Scoring
&
(e)	The kicker must take the kick within one minute from the lime the kicker has indicated an
intention to kick. The intention to kick is signalled by the arrival of the kicking tee or sand,
or the player makes a mark on the ground. The player must complete the kick within the
minute even if the ball rolls over and has to be placed again.
Sanction: The kick is disallowed if the kicker does not take the kick within the time
allowed
(a)	All the kicker’s team, except the placer, must be behind the ball when it is kicked.
(b)	Neither the kicker nor a placer must do anything to mislead their opponents into charging
too soon
(c)	If the ball falls over before the kicker begins the approach to kick, the referee permits the
kicker to replace it without excessive delay. While the ball is replaced, the opponents must
stay behind their goal line.
If the ball falls over after lhe kicker begins the approach to kick, the kicker may then kick or
attempt a dropped goal.
If the ball falls over and rolls away from the line through the place where the try was
scored, and the kicker then kicks the ball over the crossbar, a goal is scored.
If the ball falls over and rolls into touch after the kicker begins the approach to kick, the kick
is disallowed
Sanction: (a)-(c) II the kicker's team infringes, the kick is disallowed
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
2011
60
Law 9 Method of Scoring
9.B.3 THE OPPOSING TEAM
(a)	All players ol the opposing team must retire to their goal line and must not overstep that Ine
until the kicker begins the approach to kick or starts to kick When the kicker does this, tney
may charge or jump to prevent a goal but must not be physically supported by other p'ayers
in these actions.
(b)	When the ball tails over after the kicker began the approach to kick, the opponents may
continue to charge
(c)	A defending team must not shout dunng a kick at goal.
Sanction: (a)-(c) If the opposing team infringes but the kick < successful, the goal stands
If the kick is unsuccessful, the kicker may take another kick and the opposing team is not
aCowed to charge.
When another kick is allowed, the kicker may repeat all the preparations. The kicker may
change the type ol kick.
61 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
Law i 0 Foul Play

DEFINITIONS
Foul play is any
the letter and spl
repeated infringe
the Game.
a pljgprdoes within the playing enclosure that is against
the Univd of the Game. It Includes obstruction, unfair play,
ts, dagii&rous play and misconduct which is prejudicial to
(a)	Charging or pushing. When a player and an opponent are running for the ball, either player
must not charge or push the other except shoulder-to-shoulder.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(b)	Running in front of a ball carrier. A player must not intentionally move or stand in front of
a team-mate carrying the ball thereby preventing opponents from tackling the current ball
carrier or the opportunity to tackle potential ball carriers when they gain possession.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(c)	Blocking the tackler. A player must not intentionally move or stand in a position that
prevents an opponent from tackling a ball carrier
Sanction: Penally kick
(d)	Blocking the ball. A player must not intentionally move or stand in a position that prevents
an opponent from playing the ball.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(e)	Ball carrier running Into team-mate. A player carrying the ball must not intentionally run
into team-mates in front of that player
Sanction: Penalty kick
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
62
Law 10 Foul Play
10.2	UNFAIRPLAY______________________________________________________
(a)	Intentionally Offending. A player must not intentionally infringe any Law of the Game, cr
play unfairly The player who intentionally offends must be either admonished, or cautora
that a send off will result if the offence or a similar offence Is committed, or sent off.
Sanction: Penalty kick
A penalty try must be awarded if the offence prevents a try that would probably otherv.-.se
have been scored. A player who prevents a try being scored through foul play must eitner
be cautioned and temporarily suspended or sent off.
(b)	Time-wasting. A player must not intentionally waste time
Sanction: Free Kick
(c)	Throwing Into touch. A player must not intentionally knock, place, push or throw the ba'.
with his arm or hand into touch, touch-m-goal, or over the dead ball line.
Sanction: Penalty kick on the 15-metre line if the offence is between the 15-melre line ar:
the touchline, or, at the place of infringement if the offence occured elsewhere in the fed
play. or. 5 metres from the goal line and at least 15 metres from the touchline if the
infringement occured in in-goal.
A penalty try must be awarded if the offence prevents a try that would probably othews!
have been scored.
10.3	REPEATED INFRINGEMENTS	_______
(a)	Repeatedly offending. A player must not repeatedly Infringe any Lav/. Repeated
infringement is a matter of fact. The question of whether or not the player Intended to
infringe is irrelevant.
Sanction: Penalty kick
A player penalised for repeated infringements must be cautioned and temporanly
suspended.
63 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD

I Lc2W *0 0 Foul Play

(b)	Repeated infringements by the team. When different players of the same team repeatedly
commit the same offence, the referee must decide whether or not this amounts to repeated
infringement. If it does, the referee gives a general warning to the team and if they then
repeat the offence, the referee cautions and temporarily suspends the guilty player(s) If a
player of that same team then repeats the offence the referee sends off the guilty player(s)
Sanction: Penalty kick
A penalty try must be awarded if the offence prevents a try that would probably otherwise
have been scored.
(c)	Repeated infringements: standard applied by referee. When the referee decides how
many offences constitute repeated infringement, the referee must always apply a strict
standard in representative and senior matches. When a player offends three times the
referee must caution that player
The referee may relax this standard in junior or minor matches, where infnngements may be
the result of poor knowledge of the Laws or lack of skill.
10.4	DANGEROUS PLAY AND MISCONEMi
(a) Punching or striking. A player must not strike an opponent with the fist or arm, including
the elbow, shoulder, head or knee(s)
Sanction: Penalty kick
(b)	Stamping or trampling. A player must not stamp or trample on an opponent.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(c)	Kicking. A player must not kick an opponent
Sanction: Penalty kick
(d)	Tripping. A player must not trip an opponent with the leg or foot
Sanction: Penalty kick
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
64
Law 10 Foul Play

(e)	Dangerous tackling. A player must not tackle an opponent early, late or dangerously.
Sanction: Penalty kick
A player must not tackle (or try to tackle) an opponent above the line of the shoulders e.r
if the tackle starts below the line of the shoulders. A tackle around the opponent's neck v
head is dangerous play.
Sanction: Penalty kick
A ■stiff-arm tackle’ is dangerous play. A player makes a stiff-arm tackle when using a stfl-
arm to strike an opponent
Sanction: Penalty kick
Playing a player without the ball is dangerous play.
Sanction: Penalty kick
A player must not tackle an opponent whose feet are off the ground
Sanction: Penalty kick
(f)	Playing an opponent without the ball. Except in a scrum, ruck or maul, a player wno s
not in possession of the ball must not hold, push or obstruct an opponent not carrying tre
ball.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(g)	Dangerous charging. A player must not charge or knock down an opponent carrying te
ball without trying to grasp that player.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(h)	A player must not charge into a ruck or maul. Charging Includes any contact made wrthoit
use of the arms, or without grasping a player.
(i)	Tackling the jumper In the air. A player must not tackle nor tap, push or pull the foot or
feet of an opponent jumping for the ball in a lineout or in open play.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(j)	Lifting a player from the ground and dropping or driving that player into the ground v>h st
that player’s feet are still off the ground such that the player's head and/or upper body
come into contact with the ground is dangerous play.
Sanction: Penalty kick
65 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
Law HO Foul Play
&
(k)	Dangerous play in a scrum, ruck or maul. The front row of a scrum must not rush against
its opponents
Sanction: Penalty kick
Front row players must not intentionally lift opponents off their feet or force them upwards
out of the scrum
Sanction: Penalty kick
Players must not charge into a ruck or maul without binding onto a player in the ruck or
maul.
Sanction: r- i-aity kick
Players must not intentionally collapse a scrum, ruck or maul.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(I)	Retaliation. A player must not retaliate Even if an opponent Is infringing the Laws, a player
must not do anything that is dangerous to the opponent.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(m)	Acts contrary to good sportsmanship. A player must not do anything that is against the
spirit of good sportsmanship in the playing enclosure.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(n)	Misconduct while the ball is out of play. A player, must not, while the ball Is out of play,
commit any misconduct, or obstruct or in any way interfere with an opponent.
Sanction: Penalty kick
The sanction is the same as for sections 10.4 (a)-(m) except that the penalty kick is
awarded at the place where play would restart. If that place is on the touchline or within 15
metres of it. the mark for the penalty kick is on the 15-metre line, in line with that place.
r ’
2011
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
Law 10 Foul Play

If play would restart at a 5-metre scrum, the mark for the penalty kick is at that place of te
scrum.
If play would restart with a drop-out. the non-offending warn may choose to take the
penalty kick anywhere on the 22-metre line.
II a penalty kick is awarded but the offending team is g .• ty of further misconduct before f-:
kick is taken, the referee cautions or orders off the guilt "layef and advances the mark Vj
the penalty kick 10 metres. This covers both the origin: *fenc . and the misconduct
II a penalty kick is awarded to a team but a player of that team is guilty of further
misconduct before the kick is taken, the referee will cauhon or send-off the guilty player.
declare the kick disallowed, and award a penalty kick to the opposing team.
If an offence is committed outside the playing area while the ball is still in play, and if that
offence is not covered by any other part of this Law. the penalty kick is awarded on the 15-
metre line, in line with where the offence happened
(o)	Late-charging the kicker. A player must not intentionally charge or obstruct an oppor.er
who has just kicked the ball.
Sanction: The non-offending team may choose to take the penalty kick either at the p'a:e
of infringement, where the ball lands or or where it was next played
Place of infringement If the infringement takes place in the kicker's in-goal, the pens-/
kick is taken 5 metres from the goal line in line with the place of infringement but al lea£
15 metres from the touchline
The non-offending team may also choose to take the penalty where the ball lands or is rfji
played before landing and at least 15 metres from the touchline
Where the ball lands. If the ball lands in touch, the mark for the optional penalty kick s •“
the 15-metre line, in line with v/here it went into touch. If the ball lands, or is next played
before landing, within 15 metres of the touchline, the mark is on the 15-metre line oopcs^
v/here the ball landed or was playeo.
67 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
Law H 0 Foul Play
Late charging the kicker
If the ball lands in the in-goal, in touch-in-goal, or on or over the dead ball line, the mark for
the optional penalty kick is 5 metres from the goal line, in line with the place where the ball
crossed the goal line and at least 15 metres from the touchline.
If the ball hits a goal post or crossbar, the optional penalty kick is awarded where the ball
lands on the ground.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
2011
68
Law 10 Foul Play
(p)	Flying Wedge and Cavalry Charge. A team must not use the Flying Wedge' or the ‘Crrary
Charge1
Sanction: Penalty kick at the place of the original infringement
‘Flying Wedge’. The type of attack known as a ‘Flying Wedge’ usually happens near the
goal line, when the attacking team is awarded a penalty kick or free kick
The kicker tap-kicks the ball and starts the attack, either by driving towards the goal Ine a
by passing to a team-mate who drives forward. Immediately, team mates bind on each s:e
of the ball carrier in a wedge formation. Often one or more of these team mates is in Iron
of the ball carrier A 'Flying Wedge' is illegal
Sanction: Penalty kick at the place of the original infringement
'Cavalry Charge'. The type of attack known as as a ’Cavalry Charge' usually happens near
the goal line, when the attacking team is awarded a penalty kick or free kick. Either a sr$e
player stands some distance behind the kicker, or attacking players form a line across the
field some distance behind the kicker
These attacking players are usually a metre or two apart At a signal from the kicker, th?/
charge forward When they get near, the kicker tap-kicks the ball and passes to a player
who had started some distance behind the kicker
Sanction: Penalty kick at the place of infringement
(q)	Advantage may be played for acts of foul play, but if the offence prevents a probable try. a
penalty try must be awarded.
(r)	For an offence reported by an assistant referee a penalty kick may be awarded where tne
offence occurred, or advantage may be played
(s)	All players must respect the authority of the referee. They must not dispute the referee’s
decisions. They must stop playing at once when the referee blows the whistle except at a
kick-off or at a penalty kick following admonishment, temporary suspension, or send-off
Sanction: Penalty kick
69 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
Law HO Foul Play
10.5	SANCTIONS
(a)	Any player who infringes any part of the Foul Play Law must be admonished, or cautioned
and temporarily suspended for a period of ten minutes' playing time, or sent-off
(b)	A player who has been cautioned and temporarily suspended who then commits a second
cautionable offence within the Foul Play Law must be sent-off
10.6	YELLOW AND RED CARDS
(a)	When a player has been cautioned and temporanly suspended in an International match the
referee will show that player a yellow card
(b)	When a player has been sent off in an International match, the referee will show that player
a red card.
(c)	For other matches the Match Organiser or Union having jurisdiction over the match may
decide upon the use of yellow and red cards.
10.7	PLAYER SENT OFF
A player who is sent-off takes no further part in the match.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
2011
70
Law 11 Offside and Onside in General Play
Fl
At the start of a game all players are onside. As the
may find themselves in an offside position. Such pl<
penalised until they become onside again.
In general play a player is offside if the player is in f
carrying the ball, or in front of a team-mate who las;
grasses players
len liable to be
i-mate who is
e ball.
Offside means that a player is temporarily out of the
to be penalised if they take part in the game.
ich players are liabte
s

In general play, a player can be put onside either by
by an action of an opponent. However, the offside pl
the offside player interferes with play; or moves forw
to move 10 metres away from the place where the b;

ft?
L1.1 OFFSIDE IN GENERAL PLAY
>f a team-mate or
>t be put onside i
is the ball, or fails
(a)	A player who is in an offside position is liable to sanction only if the player does one of tnre*
things:
• Interferes with play or,
• Moves forward, towards the ball or
• Fails to comply with the 10-Metre Law {Law 11.4).
A player who is in an offside position is not automatically penalised.
A player who receives an unintentional throw forward is not offside
A player can be offside in the in-goal
(b)	Offside and interfering with play. A player who is offside must not take part in the game
This means the player must not play the ball or obstruct an opponent.
(c)	Offside and moving forward. When a team-mate of an offside player has kicked aheaa.
the offside player must not move towards opponents who are wailing to play the bal.or
move towards the place where the ball lands, until the player has been put onside.
71 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
Law 1 "8 Offside and Onside in General Play
[ 11.2 BEING PUT OtySIDE BY THE ACTION OF A TEAM-MATE
In general play, there are three ways by which an offside player can be put onside by
actions of that player or of team mates.
(a)	Action by the player. When the offside player runs behind the team-mate who last kicked,
touched or carried the ball, the player Is put onside.
(b)	Action by the ball carrier. When a team-mate carrying the ball runs in front ol the offside
player, that player is put onside.
(c)	Action by the kicker or other onside player. When the kicker, or team-mate who was
level with or behind the kicker when (or after) the ball was kicked, runs in front of the
offside player, the player is put onside When running forward, the team-mate may be in
touch or touch-in-goal, but that team-mate must return to the playing area to put the player
onside.
Yellow team -
direction of
Play
Offside player
runs behind
ball carrier
Team-mate
with ball runs
ahead
Team-mate kicks,
runs ahead or another
onside team-mate
runs ahead
Player made onside by team-mate
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
72
Law 11 Offside and Onside in General Play
&
11.3	BEING PUT ONSIDE BY OPPONENTS
In general play, there are three ways by which an offside player can be put onside by an
action ol the opposing team. These three ways do not apply to a player who is offs’de incer
the 10-Metre Law.
(a)	Runs 5 metres with ball. When an opponent carrying the ball runs 5 metres, the offs:de
player is put onside
(b)	Kicks or passes. When an opponent kicks or passes the ball, the offside player is put
onside.
(c)	Intentionally touches ball. When an opponent intentionally touches the ball but does not
catch it the offside player is put onside.
Blue team -
direction of
Play
Yellow team -
direction of
Play
Opponent runs
five metres with
ball
Opponent
kicks or
passes
Opponent
intentionally
touches ball

Player put onside by opponents
73 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
Law i *0 Offside and Onside in General Play
11.4	OFFSIDE UNDER THE 1O-METRE LAW
(a) When a team-mate of an offside player has kicked ahead, the offside player is considered Io
De taking part in the game if the player Is in front of an imaginary line across the field which
is 10 metres from the opponent waiting to play the Dall, or from where the ball lands or may
land. The offside player must immediately move behind the imaginary 10-metre line or the
kicker if this is closer than 10 metres While moving away, the player must not obstruct an
opponent.
Sanction- - nalty hr •
(b) While moving away, the offside player cannot be put onside by any action of the opposing
team However, before the player has moved the full 10 metres, the player can be put
onside by any onside team-mate who runs in front of the player
(c)	When a player who Is offside under the 10-Metre Law charges an opponent waiting to catch
the ball, the referee blows the whistle at once and the offside player is penalised Delay maj
prove dangerous to the opponent.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(d)	When a player who is offside under the 10-metre Law plays the ball which has been
misfielded by an opponent, the offside player is penalised
Sanction: Penalty kick
(e)	The 10-metre Law is not altered by the fact that the ball has hit a goal post or a crossbar
What matters Is where the ball lands An offside player must not be in front of the Imaginary
10-metre line across the field.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(f)	The 10-metre Law does not apply when a player kicks the ball, and an opponent charges
down the kick, and a team-mate of the kicker who was In front of the Imaginary 10-metre
line across the field then plays the ball. The opponent was not 'waiting to play the bail’ and
the team-mate is onside. The 10-metre Law applies if the ball touches or is played by an
opponent but is not charged down.
Sanction: When a player is penalised for being offside in general play the opposing team
chooses either a penalty kick at the place of infringement or a scrum at the place where the
offending team last played the ball. If it was last played in that team's in-goal, the scrum is
formed 5 metres from the goal line in line with where it was played
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
74
Law H 1 Offside and Onside in General Play

(g) If more than one player is offside and moving forward after a team-mate has kicked ahead.
the place of infringement is the position of the offside player closest to an opponent waiting
for the ball, or closest to where the ball lands.
11.5 BEING PUT ONSIDE UNDER THE 10-M
■ __________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________J
(a) The offside player must retire behind the imaginary 10-metre line across the field, otherwise
the player is liable to be penalised
(b) While retiring, the player can be put onside before moving behind the imaginary 10-metre
line by any of the three actions of the player's team listed above in 11.2 However, the
player cannot be put onside by any action of the opposing team.
11.6	ACCIDENTAL OFFSIDE
(a) When an offside player cannot avoid being touched by the ball or by a team-mate carrying
it the player Is accidentally offside. If the player s team gains no advantage from this, p'a/
continues. If the player’s team gains an advantage, a scrum is formed with the opposing
team throwing In the ball.
(b) When a player hands the ball to a team-mate in front of the first player, the receiver is
offside. Unless the receiver is considered to be intentionally offside (in which case a penalty
kick is awarded), the receiver is accidentally offside and a scrum is formed with the
opposing team throwing in the ball.
’ 11-7 OFFSIDE AFTER A KNOCK-ON
When a player knocks-on and an offside team-mate next plays the ball, the offside player is
liable to sanction if playing the ball prevented an opponent from gaining an advantage
Sanction: Penalty kick
75 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
Law H H Offside and Onside in General Play

11.8 PUTTING ONSIDE A PLAYER RETIRING DURING A RUCK, MAUL,
SCRUM OR LINEOUT
When a ruck, maul, scrum or lineout forms, a player who Is offside and is retiring as
required by Law remains offside even when the opposing team wins possession and the
ruck, maul, scrum or lineout has ended. The player Is put onside by retiring behind the
applicable offside line. No other action of the offside player and no acton of that player’s
team mates can put the offside player onside.
If the player remains offside the player can be put onside only by the action of the opposing
team There are two such actions:
Opponent runs 5 metres with ball. When an opponent carrying the ball has run 5 metres,
the offside player is put onside. An offside player is not put onside when an opponent
passes the ball. Even if the opponents pass the ball several times, their action does not put
the offside player onside.
Opponent kicks. When an opponent kicks the ball, the offside player is put onside.
h?il9WorrERiNG	________
A player who remains In an offside position is loitering. A loiterer who prevents the opposing
team from playing the ball as they wish is taking part in the game, and Is penalised. The
referee makes sure that the loiterer does not benefit from being put onside by the opposing
team's action.
Sanction: Penalty kick at the offending player's offside line
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
2011
76
Law 12 Knock-on or Throw Forward

t kicks it, or
ail may travel
DEFINITION: KNOCK-ON
A knock-on occurs when a player loses possess!*
forward, or when a player hits the ball forward witl
ball hits the hand or arm and goes forward, and th(
another player before the original player can catch
‘Forward’ means towards the opposing team’s dea
EXCEPTION
I and it goes
arm, or when the
the ground or
Charge down. If a player charges down the ball
immediately after the kick, it is not a knock-on even
forward.
77 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
Law H2 Knock-on or Throw Forward
&
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
2011
78
Law 12 Knock-on or Throw Forward
12.1	THE OUTCOME OF A KNOCK-ON OR THROW FORWARD
(a)	Unintentional knock-on or throw forward. A scrum is awarded at the place of
infringement
(b)	Unintentional knock-on or throw forward at a lineout. A scrum is awarded 15 metres
from the touchline
(c)	Knock-on or throw forward Into the In-goal. If an attacking player knocks-on or thro.’.s-
forward in the field of play and the ball goes into the opponents' in-goal and it is made dead
there, a scrum Is awarded where the knock-on or throw forward happened.
(d)	Knock-on or throw forward Inside the In-goal. If a player of either team Knocks-on or
throws-forward inside the In-goal, a 5-metre scrum is awarded in line with the place of
infringement not closer than 5 metres from the touchline
(e)	Intentional knock or throw forward. A player must not intentionally knock the ball forwaro
with hand or arm, nor throw forward
Sanction: Penalty kick. A penalty try must be awarded if the offence prevents a try that
would probably otherwise have been scored
79 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
DURING THE MATCH
lln the field of play
I Law 13 Kick-off and Restart Kicks
ILaw 14 Ball on the Ground - No Tackle
I Law 15 Tackle: Ball Carrier Brought to Ground
ILaw 16 Ruck
ILaw 17 Maul
ILaw 18 Mark
Law 13 Kick-off and Restart Kicks
DEFINITIONS
The kick-off occurs at the start of each half of the
each period of extra time. Restart kicks occur afte
the beginning of
touch down.
13.1	WHERE AND HOW THE KICK-OFF IS
(a)	A team kicks off with a drop kick which must be taken at or behind the centre of the half
way line
(b)	If the ball is kicked off by the wrong type of kick, or from the incorrect place, the opposing
team has two choices:
To have the ball kicked off again, or
To have a scrum at the centre of the half way line and they throw in the ball.
3.2	WHO TAKES THE KICK-OFF AND RESTART KICK
(a)	At the start of the game, the team whose captain elected to take the kick after winning tre
toss will kick off. or the opposing team if the winning captain elected to cnoose an end.
(b)	After the half-time interval, the opponents of the team who kicked off at the start of the
game kick off.
(c)	After a score the opponents of the team who scored restart play
13.3 POSmON OF THE KICKER’S TEAM AT A KICK-OFF
All the kicker's team must be behind the ball when it is kicked. If they are not. a scrum is
formed at the centre. Their opponents throw in the ball
81 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
Law 13 Kick-off and Restart Kicks
13.4	POSITION OF THE OPPOSING TEAM AT A KICK-OFF
All the opposing team must stand on or behind the 10-metre line. If they are in front of that
line or if they charge before the ball is kicked, it is kicked off again.

13.5	KICK-OFF OF 10 METRES
if the ball reaches the opponents' 10-metre line or reaches lhe 10-metre line and is blown
back, play continues.
UWVS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
2011
82
LsiW 13 Kick-off and Restart Kicks
13.6	KICK-OFF OF UNDER 10 METRES Bl
r- : .	______________________
II the ball does not reach the opponent's 10-metre line but is first played by an opponent,
play continues.
13.7	KICK-OFF OF UNDER 10 METRES AND
OPPONENT____________________J
If the ball does not reach the opponent's 10-metre line the opposing team has two choices
To have the ball kicked off again, or
To have a scrum at the centre of the half-way line and they throw in the ball
13.8	BALL GOES DIRECTLY INTO TOUCI_________
The ball must land in the field of play. If it is kicked directly into touch the opposing team
has three choices:
To have the ball kicked off again, or
To have a scrum at the centre and they have the throw-m, or
To accept the kick.
If they accept the kick, the lineout is on the half way line If the bail is blown behind the hat
v/ay line and goes directly into touch, the lineout is at the place where it went into touch.
83 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
Law 13 Kick-off and Restart Kicks

IE IN-GOAL

(a)	If the ball is kicked into the in-goal without having touched or been touched by a player, the
opposing team has three choices.
To ground the ball, or
To make it dead, or
To play on
(b)	If the opposing team grounds the ball, or if they make it dead, or if the ball becomes dead
by going into touch-m-goal or on or over the dead ball line, they have two choices
To have a scrum formed at the centre, and they throw in the ball, or
To have the other team kick off again.
(c)	If they opt to ground the ball or make it dead, they must do so without delay. Any other
action with the ball by a defending player means the player has elected to play on
13.10	DROP-OUT_________
DEFINITIONS
A drop-out is a drop kick taken by the defending team. The drop-out may be
taken anywhere on or behind the 22-metre line.
A drop-out is used to restart play after an attacking player has put or taken the
ball into the in-goal, without infringement, and a defending player has made the
ball dead there or it has gone Into touch-in-goal or on or over the dead ball line.
13.11	DELAY IN DROP-OUT
The drop-out must be taken without delay.
Sanction: Free Kick on the 22-metre line.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
84
Law 13 Kick-off and Restart Kicks
13.12	DROP-OUT INCORRECTLY TAKEN
It the ball is kicked with the wrong type of kick, or from the wrong place, the opposing tear'.
has two choices:
To have another drop-out, or
To have a scrum at the centre of the 22-metre line and they throw in the ball
13.13	DROP-OUT MUST CROSS THE LINE
(a)	If the ball does not cross the 22-metre line, the opposing team has two choices.
To have another drop-out, or
To have a scrum at the centre of the 22-metre line
They throw m the ball.
(b)	if the ball crosses the 22-metre line but is blown back, play continues.
(c)	If the ball does not cross the 22-metre line, advantage may apply An opponent who plays
the ball can score a try
13.14	DROP-OUT GOES DIRECTLY INTO TOUCH
The ball must land in the field of play If it is kicked directly into touch, the opposing team
has three choices:
To have another drop-out, or
To have a scrum at the centre of the 22-metre line, and they throw in the ball, or
To accept the kick. If they accept the kick, the throw-in is on the 22-metre line.
85 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
Law 13 Kick-off and Restart Kicks

GOES INTO THE OPPONENTS’ IN-GOAL
(a)	If the ball is kicked into the opponents' m-goal without having touched or been touched by a
player, the opposing team has three choices
To ground the ball, or
To make it dead, or
To play on.
(b)	If the opposing team grounds the ball, or makes it dead, or if the ball becomes dead by
going into touch-m-goal or on or over the dead ball line, they have two choices.
To have a scrum formed at the centre of the 22-metre line from where the kick was taken
and they throw in the ball, or
To have the other team drop-out again.
(c)	If they opt to ground the ball or make it dead, they must do so without delay Any other
action with the ball by a defending player means the player has elected to play on
13.16 THE KICKER’S TEAM
(a) All the kicker's team must be behind the ball when it is kicked If not. a scrum is formed at
the centre of the 22-metre line. The opposing team throws in the ball.
(b) However, if the kick is taken so quickly that players of the kicker's team who are retiring are
still in front of the ball, they will not be penalised. They must not stop retiring until they have
been made onside by an action of a team-mate. They must not take part in the game until
they have been made onside in this way.
Sanction: Scrum at the centre of the 22-metre line The opposing team throws in the ball.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION fcjgjtfgjU 86
Law 13 Kick-off and Restart Kicks
13.17 THE OPPOSING TEAM
(a)	The opposing team must not charge over the 22-metre line before the ball is kicked.
Sanction: Free Kick at the place of infringement
(b)	II an opponent is on the wrong side of the 22-metre line and delays or obstructs the drop-
out. the player is guilty of misconduct
Sanction: Penalty kick on the 22-metre line
87 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
Law U 4 Ball on the Ground - No Tackle
DEFINITIOl
This situation occui
to ground to gathi
It also occurs
not been tackled.
The Game is t
make the ball
immediately avail
A player who
falling down, is n<
penalised.
A player who is ndl
player who goes to
>a!l Is available on the ground and a player goes
t immediately after a scrum or a ruck.
n the ground in possession of the ball and has
'ers who are on their feet. A player must not
Ing down. Unplayable means that the ball is not
team so that play may continue.
layable, or who obstructs the opposing team by
lose and Spirit of the Game and must be
.;ho goes to ground while holding the ball, or a
lathers the ball, must act Immediately.
14.1 PLAYERS ON THE GROUND
(a) A player with the ball must immediately do one of three things
• Get up with the ball
• Pass the ball
• Release the ball
Sanction: Penalty kick
(b)
A player who passes or releases the ball must also get up or move away from it at once.
Sanction: Penalty kick
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
Law 14 Ball on the Ground - No Tackle
(c)	A player without the ball must not lie on, over, or near the ball to prevent opponents getting
possession of it.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(d)	A player on the ground must not tackle or attempt to tackle an opponent
Sanction: Penalty kick
14.2	PLAYERS ON THEIR FEET
(a)	Falling over the player on the ground with the ball. A player must not intentionally fa.'! on
or over a player with the ball who is lying on the ground.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(b)	Falling over players lying on the ground near the ball. A player must not intentional fal
on or over players lying on the ground with the ball between them or near them.
Sanction: Penalty kick
89 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
Law U 5) Tackle: Ball Carrier Brought to Ground Zgp,
DEFINITION^ Z
A tackle occurs wherfllhe b3||arrier is held by one or more opponents and is
brought to ground. ffit;
A ball carrier who istftrt he(®» not a tackled player and a tackle has not taken
place.
Opposition players hoffllhe ball carrier and bring that player to ground, and
who also go to groujjfcardgfffivn as tacklers.
Opposition playersW holSBe ball carrier and do not go to ground are not
tacklers.
Tackle
15.1	WHERE CAN A TACKLE TAKE PLACE
A tackle can only take place in the field of play.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
90
Law 15 Tackle: Ball Carrier Brought to Ground
$
15.2	WHEN A TACKLE CANNOT TAKE PLACE
When the ball carrier is held by one opponent and a team-mate of the ball carrier binds on to that
ball carrier, a maul has been formed and a tackle cannot take place
15.3	BROUGHTTQTHE GROUND DEFINED
(a)	If the ball carrier has one knee or both knees on the ground, that player has been 'brought
to ground'.
(b)	II the ball carrier is sitting on the ground, or on top of another player on the ground the bal
carrier has been 'brought to ground'.
15.4	THE TACKLER
a) When a player tackles an opponent and they both go to ground, the tackler must
immediately release the tackled player
Sanction: Penalty kick
Co) The tackler must immediately get up or move away from the tackled player and from the
ball at once.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(c)	The tackler must get up before playing the ball and then may play the ball from any
direction.
Sanction: Penalty kick
15.5	THE TACKLED PLAYER
(a) A tackled player must not lie on, over, or near the ball to prevent opponents from gaining
possession of it. ano must try to make the ball available immediately so that play can continue.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(b) A tackled player must immediately pass the ball or release it. That player must also get up
or move away from It at once
Sanction: Penalty kick
91 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
Law 15 Tackle: Ball Carrier Brought to Ground
&
(c)	A tackled player may release the ball by putting it on the ground in any direction, provided
this is done immediately.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(d)	A tackled player may release the ball by pushing it along the ground in any directon except
forward, provided tnis is done immediately.
Sanction: Penalty Kick
(e)	If opposition players who are on their teet attempt to play the ball, the tackled player must
release the ball.
Sanction: Penalty Jck
X
Tackled player must release the ball immediately
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
92
Law 15 Tackle: Ball Carrier Brought to Ground
(f)	If a tackled player's momentum carries the player into the in-goal, the player can score a
or make a touch down.
(g)	II a player is tackled near the goal line, that player may immediately reach out and ground
the ball on or over the goal line to score a try or make a touch down.
A player tackled near the goal line can reach out
and ground the ball to score a try
15.6	OTHER PLAYERS
(a)	After a tackle, all other players must be on their feet when they play the ball. Players are o
their feet if no other part of their body Is supported by the ground or players on the ground
Sanction: Penalty kick
Exception; Ball goes into the in-goal. After a tackle near the goal line, if the ball has been
released and has gone Into the in-goal any player, including a player on the ground, may
ground the ball.
93 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
Law 15 Tackle: Ball Carrier Brought to Ground
After a tackle all of the players must be on their feet
when they play the ball
Player off his feet and playing the ball at the tackle
UXWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
Law 15 Tackle: Ball Carrier Brought to Ground
$
Player off feet and playing the ball at the tackle
(b)	After a tackle any players on their feet may attempt to gam possession by taking the ball
from the ball carrier's possession.
(c)	Players in opposition to the ball earner who remain on their feel who bring the ball carrier to
ground so that the player is tackled must release the ball and the ball earner. Those players
may then play the ball providing they are on their feet and do so from behind the bail and
from directly behind the tackled player or a tackler closest to those players' goal line
Sanction: Penalty kick
(d)	At a tackle or near lo a tackle, other players who play the ball must do so from behind the
ball and from directly behind the tackled player or the tackler closest to those players' goal
line
Sanction: Penalty kick
95 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
Law U 5 Tackle: Ball Carrier Brought to Ground
(e)	Any player who gams possession of the ball at the tackle must play the ball immediately by
moving away or passing or kicking the ball.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(I) Any player who first gains possession of the ball must not go to the ground at the tackle or
near to it unless tackled by an opposition player.
Sanction: Penalty k irk
(9) Any player who first gains possession of the ball at the tackle or near to it may be tackled
by an opposition player providing that player does so from behind the ball and from directly
behind the tackled player or the tackler closest to that player's goal line.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(h)	After a tackle, any player lying on the ground must not prevent an opponent from getting
possession of the ball
Sanction: Penalty kick
0 After a tackle, any player on the ground must not tackle an opponent or try to tackle an
opponent
Sanction: Penalty kick
G) When a tackled player reaches out to ground the ball on or over the goal line to score a try.
an opponent may pull the ball from the player's possession, but must not kick or attempt to
kick the ball
Sanction: Penalty kick
115.7 FORBIDDEN PRACTICES
(a)	No player may prevent the tackled player from passing the ball.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(b)	No player may prevent the tackled player from releasing the ball and getting up or moving
away from it
Sanction: Penalty kick
96
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
Law 15 Tackle: Ball Carrier Brought to Ground /<^
(c)	No player may fall on or over the players lying on the ground after a tackle with the ball
between or near to them
Sanction: Penalty kick
No player may fall on or over a tackled player
(d)	Players on their feet must not charge or obstruct an opponent who is not near the ball.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(e)	Danger may arise if a tackled player fails to release the ball or move away from it
immediately, or if that player is prevented from so doing. If either of these happens the
referee awards a penalty kick immediately
Sanction: Penalty kick
15,8	DOUBT ABOUT FAILURE TO COMPLY	__________________
If the ball becomes unplayable at a tackle and there is doubt about which player did not
conform to Law, the referee orders a scrum immediately with the throw-in by the team that
was moving forward prior to the stoppage or, if no team was moving forward, by the
attacking team
97 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
ILaw ‘OS Ruck
IDEFINITIO
*A ruck is a phase of
1 their feet, in physi
eended.
fi Players are rucking
fl keep possession of
e or more players from each team, who are on
se around the ball on the ground. Open play has
a ruck and using their feet to try to win or
being guilty of foul play.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
Law 16 Ruck
16.1	FORMING A RUCK
(a)	Where can a ruck take place. A ruck can take place only in the field of play
(b)	How can a ruck form. Players are on their feet At least one player must be in physical
contact with an opponent. The ball must be on the ground. If the ball is ofl the ground lor
any reason, the ruck is not formed
16.2	JOINING A RUCK
(a)	All players forming, joining or taking part in a ruck must have their heads and shoulders no
lower than their hips
Sanction: Free Kick
(b)	A player joining a ruck must bind on a team mate or an opponent, using the whole arm. The
bind must either precede, or be simultaneous with, contact with any other part of the bod/
of the player joining the ruck
Sanction: Penalty kick
(c)	Placing a hand on another player in the ruck does not constitute binding.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(d)	All players forming, joining or taking part in a ruck must be on their feet
Sanction: Penalty kick
16.3	RUCKING____________
(a)	Players in a ruck must endeavour to stay on their feet.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(b)	A player must not intentionally fall or kneel in a ruck. This is dangerous play
Sanction: Penalty kick
(c)	A player must not intentionally collapse a ruck. This is dangerous play.
Sanction: Penalty kick
99 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
Law H 6 Ruck

(0) A player must not jump on top of a ruck
Sanction: Penalty kick
(e)	Players must have their heads and shoulders no lower than their hips.
Sanction: Free K
(0 A player rucking for the ball must not intentionally ruck players on the ground. A player
rucking for the ball must try to step over players on the ground and must not intentionally
step on them A player rucking must do so near the ball.
Sanction: Penalty k ck

ICES
(a)	Players must not return the ball into a ruck
Sanction: Free K
tb) Players must not handle the ball in a ruck except after a tackle if they are on their feet and
have their hands on the ball before the ruck is formed
Sanction: Penalty kick
(c)	Players must not pick up tne ball in a ruck with their legs.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(d)	Players on the ground in or near the ruck must try to move away from the ball. These
players must not interfere with the ball in the ruck or as it comes out of the ruck.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(e)	A player must not fall on or over a ball as it is coming out of a nick.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(0 A player must not take any action to make the opposing team think that the ball is out of
the ruck while it is still in the ruck.
Sanction: Free Kick
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
2011
100
Law 16 Ruck
16.5	OFFSIDE AT THE RUCK
(a)	The offside line. There are two offside lines parallel to the goal lines, one for each team
Each offside line runs through the hindmost foot of the hindmost player in the ruck. If the
hindmost foot ol the hindmost player is on or behind the goal line, the offside line for the
defending team is the goal line
(b)	Players must either join a ruck, or retire behind the offside line immediately If a player
loiters at the side of a ruck, the player is offside
Sanction: Penalty kick
At a ruck or maul, the offside line runs through the
hindmost foot of the player of the same team. The player
in the yellow jersey on the right hand side is offside.
101 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
Law H (3 Ruck
(c)	Players joining or rejoining the ruck. A player joining a ruck must do so from behind the
foot of the hindmost team-mate in the ruck. A player may join alongside this hindmost
player. If a player joins the ruck from the opponents' side, or in front of the hindmost team-
mate. the player is offside A player may bind onto an opposition player providing the player
is not otherwise offside.
Sanction: Penalty Jck on the offending team’s offside line
(d)	Players not joining the ruck. If a player is in front of the offside line and does not join the
ruck, the player must retire behind the offside line at once If a player who is behind the
offside line oversteps it and does not join the ruck the player is offside
Sanction: Penalty kick on '.lie offending team's offside line
ID TO A RUCK________
A ruck ends successfully when the ball leaves the ruck, or when the ball is on or over the
goal line.
(a) A ruck ends unsuccessfully when the ball becomes unplayable and a scrum is ordered.
The team that was moving forward immediately before the ball became unplayable in the
ruck throws in the ball
If neither team was moving forward, or if the referee cannot decide which team was moving
forward before the ball became unplayable in the ruck, the team that was moving forward
before the ruck began throws in the ball.
If neither team was moving forward, then the attacking team throws in the ball.
(b)	Before the referee blows the whistle for a scrum, the referee allows a reasonable amount of
time for the ball to emerge, especially if either team is moving forward. If (he ruck stops
moving, or if the referee decides that (he ball will probably not emerge within a reasonable
time, the referee must order a scrum.
UXWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION K&iS 102
Law 17 Maul
A maul begins when a player carrying the ball is h
and one or more of the ball earner’s team mates t
therefore consists, when it begins, of at least thr
ball carrier and one player from each team. All th
caught in or bound to the maul and must be on 1
goal line. Open play has ended.
or more opponents,
•ball carrier. A maul
m on their feet; the
Solved must be
■moving towards a

&I-
■J
103 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
Law 17 Maul
Maul not formed
104
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
Law 17 Maul
17.1	FORMING A MAUL
(a) Where can a maul take place. A maul can only take place in the field of play
17.2	JOINING A MAUL
(a) Players joining a maul must have their heads and shoulders no lower than their hips
Sanction: Free Kick
(b) A player must be caught in or bound to the maul and not just alongside it
Sanction: Penalty kick
(c)	Placing a hand on another player in the maul does not constitute binding.
Sanction: Penalty kick
;d) Keeping players on their feet. Players in a maul must endeavour to stay on their feet. The
ball carrier in a maul may go to ground providing the ball is available immediately and p ay
continues.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(e)	A player must not intentionally collapse a maul. This is dangerous play.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(0 A player must not jump on top of a maul.
Sanction: Penalty kick
17.3	OTHER MAUL OFFENCES
(a)	A player must not try to drag an opponent out of a maul.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(b) A player must not lake any action to make the opposing team think that the ball is out of
the maul while it is still in the maul.
Sanction: Free Kick
105 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
Law 17 Maul
117.4	OFFSIDE AT THE MAUL__________
(a) The offside line. There arc two offside lines parallel Io the goal lines, one for each team
Each offside line runs through the hindmost foot of the hindmost player in the maul. If the
hindmost foot of the hindmost player is on or behind the goal line, the offside line for the
defending team is the goal line
(o) A player must either join a maul, or retire behind the offside line immediately If a player
loiters at the side of a maul, the player is offside
Sanction: Penalty kick c-.i the offending team's offside line
(c)	Players joining the maul. Players joining a maul must do so from behind the foot of the
hindmost team mate in the maul. The player may join alongside this player If the player
joins the maul from the opponents' side, or in front of the hindmost team-mate, the player is
offside.
Sanction: Penalty kick on the offending team's offside line
(d)	Players not joining the maul. All players in front of the offside line and who do not join the
maul, must retire behind the offside line at once A player who does not do so, is offs.de. I
any player who is behind the offside line oversteps it and does not join the maul, the player
is offside.
Sanction: Penalty kick on the offending team's offside line
(e)	Players leaving or rejoining the maul. Players who leave a maul must immediately retire
behind the offside line, otherwise, they are offside. If the player rejoins the maul in front o
the hindmost team-mate in the maul, they are offside The player may rejoin the mau
alongside the hindmost team-mate
Sanction: Penalty kick on the offending team’s offside line
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
106
Law 17 Maul
(f)	When players of the team who are not in possession of the ball in the maul voluntarily leave
the maul such that there are no players of that team left in the maul, the maul may contnue
and there are two offside lines. The offside line for the team in possession runs through me
hindmost foot of the hindmost player in the maul and for the team not in possession it is a
line that runs through the foremost foot of the foremost player of the team in possess on at
the maul.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(g)	When players of the team who are not in possession of the ball in the maul voluntarily leave
the maul such that there are no players of that team left in the maul, players of that team
may rejoin the maul providing that the first player binds on the foremost player of the team
in possession of the ball.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(a)	A maul ends unsuccessfully if it remains stationary or has stopped moving forward for
longer than 5 seconds and a scrum is ordered
(b)	A maul ends unsuccessfully if the ball becomes unplayable or collapses (not as a result of
foul play) and a scrum is ordered
107 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
Law 17 Maul
(0 Scrum following maul. The bail is thrown in by the team not in possession when tne maul
began. If the referee cannot decide which team had possession, the team moving forward
before the maul stopped throws in the ball. If neither team was moving forward, the
attacking team throws in the ball
(d)	When a maul remains stationary or has stopped moving forward for more than 5 seconds,
but the ball is being moved and the referee can see it. a reasonable time is allowed for the
ball to emerge If it does not emerge within a reasonable time, a scrum is ordered.
(e)	When a maul has stopped moving forward it may start moving forward again providing it
does so within 5 seconds. If the maul stops moving forward a second time and if the ball is
being moved and the referee can see it, a reasonable time is allowed for the ball to emerge.
If it does not emerge within a reasonable time, a scrum is ordered.
(f)	When the ball in a maul becomes unplayable, the referee does not allow prolonged
wrestling for it. A scrum is ordered.
igi If the ball carrier in a maul goes to ground, including being on one or both knees or sitting,
the referee orders a scrum unless the ball is immediately avai’able
(h)	Scrum after a maul when catcher Is held. If a player catches the ball direct from an
opponent's kick, except from a kick-off or a drop-out. and the player is imme ia e‘*
an opponent a maul may form Then if the maul remains stationary, stops moving
for longer than 5 seconds, or if the ball becomes unplayable, and a scrum is or er
team of the ball catcher throws in the ball.
'Direct from an opponent's kick' means the ball did not touch another player or the ground
before the player caught it.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
108
Law 18 Mark
TIT
S’
To make a mark, a player must be on or behind ths
player with one foot on the 22-metre line or behinc
22’. The player must make a clean catch direct fro	...........
the same time shout “Mark". A mark cannot be mt
kick except for a drop-out.
A kick is awarded for a mark. The place for the kii
A player may make a mark even though the ball toj
before being caught.
&
A player from the defending team may make a mi
Mark!
Mark
109 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
Law 18 Mark
18.1	AFTER A MAI
The referee immediately blows the whistle and awards a kick to the player who made the
mark.
18.2	KICKAWAI

The kick is awarded at the place of the mark If the mark is made in the m-goal, the kick is
awarded 5 metres from the goal line in line with where the mark was made
18.3	KICK - WHERE
The kick is taken by the player who made the mark If that player cannot take the kick
withm one minute, a scrum is formed at the place of the mark with the ball thrown in by the
player’s team If the mark is in the m-goal, the scrum is 5 metres from the goal line, on a
line through the mark
18.5	HOW THE KICK IS TAKEN
The provisions of Law 21 - Free Kicks - apply to a kick awarded after a mark
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
110
Law 18 Mark
18.6	SCRUM ALTERNATIVE
(a)	The team of the player who made the mark may choose to take a scrum.
(b)	Where the scrum is. if the mark is m the field of play, the scrum is at the place of the
mark, but at least 5 metres from the touchline If the mark is in-goal, the scrum is 5 metres
from the goal line on a line through the mark, and at least 5 metres from me touchline
(c)	Who throws in. The team of the player who made the mark throws in the ball
18.7	PENALTY KICK AWARDED	___________
(a)	An opponent, whether onside or offside, must not charge a player who has made a mark
after the referee has blown the whistle
Sanction: Penalty kick
(b)	Where the penalty kick Is taken. If the infringing player is onside, the penalty kick is taken
at the place of the infringement. If the infringing player is offside, the penalty kick is taken
at the place of the offside line (Law 11 offside and onside in General Play.)
(c)	The penalty kick. Any player from the non-offending team may take the penalty kick.
111 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
DURING THE MATCH
^Restarts
I Law 19 Touch and Lineout
I Law 20 Scrum
I Law 21 Penalty and Free Kicks
Law 19 Touch and Lineout

TOUCH
DEFINITIONS
'Kicked directly into touch’ means that the ball waeflx&ed fpto touch without
landing on the playing area, and without touching J^ayer gtfthe referee.
•The 22’ is the area between the goal line and the including the 22-
metre line but excluding the goal line.
The line of touch is an imaginary line in the field oflfflKw.tJsBt angles to the
touchline through the place where the ball is throwrajy *
The ball is in touch when it is not being carried by a flayer and it touches the
touchline or anything or anyone on or beyond the tatrajineSl*
The ball is in touch when a player is carrying it and thiia ball carrier (or the ball)
•ouches the touchline or the ground beyond the toucfflfne. Tfie place where the
>all carrier (or the ball) touched or crossed the touchuhe Is sphere it went into
ouch.
■ --Wy”---..'
The ball is in touch if a player catches the ball and that player has a foot on the
touchline or the ground beyond the touchline. If a player has one foot in the field
of play and one foot in touch and holds the ball, the ball is In touch.
If the ball crosses the touchline or touch-in-goal line, and is caught by a player
who has both feet in the playing area, the ball is not In touch or touch-in-goal.
Such a player may knock the ball into the playing area.
If a player jumps and catches the ball, both feet must land In the playing area
otherwise the ball is in touch or touch-in-goal.
A player in touch may kick or knock the ball, but not hold it, provided it has not
crossed the plane of the touchline. The plane of the touchline is the vertical space
rising immediately above the touchline.
113 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD

Law U 9 Touch and Lineout /,<??
19.1	THROW-II
NO GAIN IN GROUND
(a)	Outside a team’s 22, a team member kicks directly into touch. Except for a penalty
kick, when a player anywhere in the field of play who is outside the 22 kicks directly into
touch, there is no gain in ground The throw-in is taken either at the place opposite where
the player kicked the ball, or at the place where it went into touch, whichever is nearer that
player's goal line.
(b)	When a team causes the ball to be put into their own 22. When a defending player plays
the ball from outside the 22 and it goes into that player's 22 or in-goal area without
touching an opposition player and then that player or another player from that team kicks
the ball directly into touch before it touches an opposition player, or a tackle fakes place or a
ruck or maul is formed, there is no gam in ground This applies when a defending player
moves back behind the 22 metre line to take a quick throw-in and then the ball is kicked
directly into touch
(c)	If a player with one or both feet inside the 22 metre line, picks up the ball which was
stationary outside the 22 metre line, and kicks it directly into touch, then the player has
taken the ball back Inside the 22-metre line, so there is no gam in ground.
(d)	Defending team takes ball into their own 22 at a scrum or lineout. When a defending
team throws the ball into a scrum or lineout outside that team's 22 and the ball then
crosses into the team's 22 without touching an opposition player and then a player from the
defending team kicks the ball directly into touch before it touches an opposition player, or a
tackle lakes place or a ruck or maul is formed, there is no gain m ground
GAIN IN GROUND
(e)	If a player with one or both feet inside the 22 metre line, picks up the ball which was in
motion outside the 22 metre line, and kicks it directly into touch from within the 22 metre
area, the throw-in Is where the ball went into touch
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
114
Law 19 Touch and Lineout
0
No gain in ground
(f)	Player takes ball into their own 22. When a defending player plays the ball from outside
the 22 and it goes into that player's 22 or in goal area and it touches an opposition player.
or a tackle takes place or a ruck or maul is formed and then tne ball is kicked by a player of
that team directly in touch, the throw-in is where the ball went into touch.
(g)	Ball put into a player's 22 by the opposition. When the ball is put into a team’s 22 by the
opposition, without having touched (or been touched by) a player of the defending team
before crossing the 22 and the ball is then kicked into touch by tne defending team, tne
throw-in is where the ball went into touch
115 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
Law 1 © Touch and Lineout
(h)	Kicks indirectly into touch. When a player anywhere in the playing area kicks ind rectly
into touch so that the ball bounces in the field of play the throw-in is taken where the ball
went into touch
When a player anywhere in the playing area kicks the ball so that it touches or is touched
by an opposition player and then goes indirectly into touch so that the ball bounces in the
field of play the throw-in is taken where the ball went into touch.
When a player anywhere in the playing area kicks the ball so that it touches or is touched
by an opposition player and then goes directly into touch the throw-in is taken in line with
where the opposition player touched the ball or where the ball crossed the touchline if that
is nearer the opposition player s goal line.
116
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
Law H9 Touch and Lineout
117 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
Law 19 Touch and Lineout
&
PENALTY KICK
(i)	Penalty kick. When a player kicks to touch from a penalty kick anywhere in the playing
area, the throw-in is taken where the ball went into touch
FREE KICK
® Outside the kicker’s 22, no gain in ground. When a free kick awarded outside the 22
goes directly into touch, the throw-in is in line with where the ball was kicked, or where it
went Into touch, whichever is nearer the kicker’s goal line
(k) Inside the kicker's 22 or in-goal, gain in ground. When a free kick is awarded in the 22
or m-goal and the kick goes directly into touch, the throw-in is where the ball went into
touch
19.2	QUICK THROW-IN
(a)	A player may take a quick throw-in without waiting for a lineout to form
(b)	For a quick throw-in, the player may be anywhere outside the field of play between the
place where the ball went into touch and the player’s goal line.
(c)	A player must not take a quick throw-in after the lineout has formed. If the player does, the
quick throw-in is disallowed. The same team throws in at the lineout
(d)	For a quick throw-in. the player must use the ball that went into touch. A quick throw-in is
not permitted if another person has touched the ball apart from the player throwing it in an
an opponent who carried it into touch The same team throws into the lineout.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
118
Law 19 Touch and Lineout
(e)	At a quick throw-in, if the player throws the ball in the direction of the opposition’s goal I ne or
if the ball does not travel at least 5 metres to the 5-metre line along or behind the line of touch
before it touches the ground or a player, or if the player steps into the field of play when the
ball is thrown, then the quick throw-in is disallowed. The opposing team chooses to throw m at
either a lineout where the quick throw-in was attempted, or a scrum on the 15-metre line at
that place. If they loo throw in the ball incorrectly at the lineout, a scrum is formed on the 15-
metre line The team that first threw in the ball throws in the ball at the scrum
(f)	Al a quick throw-in a player may throw the ball in straight along the line of touch or towards
that player's goal line.
(g)	At a quick throw in, a player may come to the line of touch and leave without being
penalised.
119 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
Law 19 Touch and Lineout

(b)	At a quick throw-m, a player must not prevent the ball being thrown in 5 metres.
Sanction: Free Kick an i metre line
0 II a player carrying the ball is forced into touch, that player must release the ball lo an
opposition player so that there can be a quick throw-in.
Sanction: Penalty ki .on !5-melre line
19.3	OTHER THRO1
On all other occasions, the throw-in is taken where the ball went into touch.
The throw-in is taken by an opponent of the player who last held or touched the ball before
it went into touch When there is doubt, the attacking team takes the throw-in
Exception: When a team takes a penalty kick, and the ball is kicked into touch, the throw-in
is taken by a player of the team that took the penally kick. This applies whether the ball was
kicked directly or indirectly into touch
19.5	PLAYER WITH FOOT IN TOUCH
(a) If a player with one or both feet on or beyond the touch-line (or touch-in-goal line), pic up
the ball, which was stationary within the playing area, that player has picked up the ba n
the playing area and thereby that player has taken the ball into touch (or touch-m-goal).
(b) II a player with one or both feet on or beyond the touch-line (or touch-in-goal line), picks up
the ball, which was in motion within the playing area, that player is deemed to have pc
up the ball in touch (or touch-in-goal).
UWVS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
120
Law 19 Touch and Lineout
19.6	HOW THE THROW-IN IS V
The player taking the throw-in must stand at the correct place. The player must not step
into the field of play when the ball is thrown The ball must be thrown straight, so that it
travels at least 5 metres along the line of touch before it first touches the ground or touches
or is touched by a player.
How the throw-in takes place
19.7	INCORRECT THROW-IN
(a) If the throw-in at a lineout is incorrect, the opposing team has the choice of throwing in at a
lineout or a scrum on the 15-melre line If tney choose the throw-in to the lineout and it is
again incorrect, a scrum is formed The team that took the first throw-in throws m the ba!
121 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
Law 19 Touch and Lineout
(b) The throw-in at the lineout must be taken without delay and without pretending to throw.
Sanction: Free K.r; on-. 15-metre line
(c)	A player must not intentionally or repeatedly throw the ball in not straight.
Sanction: Penalty luck c . the 15-metre line
UNEOUf •
DEFINITIONS^
The purpose of the lineout restart play, quickly, safely and fairly, after the ball
has gone Into touch, 4vith a fhrow-ln between two lines of players.
Lineout players. Lineout players are the players who form the two lines that
make a lineout
Receiver. The receiverls the player In position to catch the ball when lineout
players pass or knock the ball back from the lineout Any player may be th
receiver but each team may have only one receiver at a lineout
Players taking part In the lineout known as participating player. Playere
I taking part in the lineout are the player who throws-ln and an tmmecia
opponent, the two players waiting to receive the ball from the lineout
lineout players.
M1^?!^ «p,ayers* AI1 other players who are not taking part in the lineout must be
10 metres behind the line of touch, on or behind their goal line if that is
nearer, until the lineout ends.
15-metre line. The 15-metre line Is 15 metres infield and parallel with the
touchline.
Scrum after lineout. Any scrum ordered because of an infringement or
stoppage at the lineout Is on the 15-metre line on the line of touc .
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
122
Law 19 Touch and Lineout
19.8	FORMING A LINEOUT
(a)	Minimum. At least two players from each team must form a lineout
Sanction: Free Kick on the 15-metre line
(b)	Maximum. The team throwing in the ball decides the maximum number of players in the
lineout.
(c)	The opposing team may have fewer lineout players but they must not have more.
Sanction: Free Kick on the 15-metre line
(d)	When the ball is in touch, every player who approaches the line of touch is presumed to do
so to form a lineout. Players who approach the line of touch must do so without delay.
Players of either team must not leave the lineout once they have taken up a position in me
lineout until the lineout has ended
Sanction: Free Kick on the 15-metre line
(e)	If the team throwing in the ball put fewer than the usual number of players in the lineout,
their opponents must be given a reasonable time to move enough players out of the lineout
Io satisfy this Law.
Sanction: Free Kick on lhe 15-metre line
(f)	These players must leave the lineout without delay. They must move to the offside line. 10
metres behind the line of touch. If the lineout ends before they reach this line, they may
rejoin play.
Sanction: Free Kick on lhe 15-metre line
(g)	Failure to form a lineout. A team must not voluntarily fail to form a lineout.
Sanction: Free Kick on the 15-metre line
(h)	Where the lineout players must stand. The front of the lineout is not less than 5 metres
from the touchline The back of the lineout is not more than 15 metres from the touchline.
All lineout players must stand between these two points.
Sanction: Free Kick on the 15-metre line
123 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
I Law 19 Touch and Lineout
The lineout
Receiver 2m away
from lineout
Receiver 2m away
from lineout
Offside line for
non-participant-
Offside line for
non-participants
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
2011
124
Law 19 Touch and Lineout
&
0) Where the receiver must stand. The receiver must stand at least 2 metres towards that
player’s goal line from that player's team-mates who are lineout players ano between 5 anj
15 metres from the touchline until the lineout begins
Sanction: Free Kick on the 15-metre line
Exception: The receiver may run into the gap and perform any of the actions available to
any other player in the lineout. The receiver is liable to sanction for offences in the lineout as
would be other players in the lineout.
(j)	Player between touch and 5 metres. The team not throwing in must have a player
standing between the touchline and the 5-metre line on that team’s side of the line of touch
when the lineout Is formed That player must stand 2 metres from the line of touch and 2
metres from the 5-metre line.
Sanction: Free Kick on the 15-metre line
(k)	Participating players in a lineout may change places before the ball is thrown
(I)	Two single straight lines. The lineout players of both teams form two single parallel lines
each at right angles to the touchline
Sanction: Free Kick on the 15-metre line
(m)	Opposing players forming a lineout must keep a clear space between their inside shoulders
This space is determined when players are in an upright stance
Sanction: Free Kick on the 15-metre line
(n)	Metre gap. Each line of players must be half a metre on their side of the line of touch.
Sanction: Free Kick on the 15-metre line
(o)	The line of touch must not be within 5 metres of the goal line
(p)	After the lineout has formed, but before the ball has been thrown in, a player must not ho'd.
push, charge into, or obstruct an opponent
Sanction: Penalty kick on the 15-metre line
125 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
Law 19 Touch and Lineout
&
)ING A LINEOUT
(a)	Lineout begins. The lineout begins when the ball leaves the hands of the player throwing it
in.
(b)	Lineout ends. The lineout ends when the ball or a player carrying it leaves the lineout
This includes the following-
When the ball is thrown, knocked or kicked out of the lineout, the lineout ends.
When the ball or a player carrying the ball moves into the area between the 5-melre line
and the touchline, the lineout ends.
When a lineout player hands the ball to a player who is peeling off. the lineout ends.
When the ball is thrown beyond the 15-metre line, or when a player takes or puts it beyond
that line, the lineout ends
When a ruck or maul develops in a lineout, and all the feet of all the p'ayers in the ruck or
maul move beyond the line of touch, the lineout ends.
When the ball becomes unplayable m a lineout, the lineout ends. Play restarts with a scrum.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
126
Law U9 Touch and Lineout
19.10 OPTIONS AVAILABLE IN A LINEOUT	_________
(a)	Levering on an opponent. A lineout player must not use an opponent as a support when
jumping.
Sanction: Penally kick on the 15-metre line
(b)	Holding or shoving. A lineout player must not hold. push, charge, obstruct or grasp an
opponent not holding the ball except when a ruck or maul is taking place
Sanction: Penalty kick on the 15-metre line
(c)	Illegal charging. A lineout player must not charge an opponent except in an attempt to
tackle the opponent or to play the ball.
Sanction: Penalty kick on the 15-metre line
(d)	Lifting and supporting. Players may assist a team-mate in jumping for the ball by tiftjng
and supporting that player providing that the lifting and/or supporting players do not support
the jumping team-mate below the shorts from behind or below the thighs from the front
Sanction: Free Kick on the 15-metre line
(e)	Pre-gripping is permitted. Players who are going to lift or support a team-mate jumping
for the ball may pre-grip that team-mate providing they do not pre-gnp below the shorts
from behind and below the thighs from the front.
Sanction: Free Kick on the 15-metre line
(f)	Jumping, supporting or lifting before the ball is thrown. A player must not jump or be
lifted or supported before the ball has left the hands of the player throwing in.
Sanction: Free Kick on the 15-metre line
(g)	Lowering a Player. Players who support a jumping team-mate must lower that player to
the ground as soon as the ball has been won by a player of either team
Sanction: Free Kick on the 15-metre line
(h)	Blocking the throw-in. A lineout player must not stand less than 5 metres from the
touchline. A lineout player must not prevent the ball being thrown m 5 metres.
Sanction: Free Kick on the 15-metre line
127 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
LL3W H 9 Touch and Lineout
No I sveri.' g on an
oppor .ent
No holding or
shoving
No illegal charging
Pre-gripping is
permitted
No blocking the
throw
Lifting of lineout
players is permitted
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
2011
128
Law 19 Touch and Lineout
(i)	When the ball has been thrown beyond a player in the lineout, that player may move to toe
space between the touchline and the 5-metre line. If the player moves into that space toe
player must not move towards that player’s goal line before the lineout ends, except n a
peeling off movement.
Sanction: Free Kick on the 15-metre line
(j)	Catching or deflecting. When jumping for the ball, a player must use either both hands cr
the inside arm to try to catch or deflect the ball. The jumper must not use the outside arm
alone to try to catch or defied the ball. II the jumper has both hands above the head ertoa
hand may be used to play the ball
Sanction: Free Kick on the 15-metre line
19.11	PLAYER THROWING-IN
There are four options available Io the player throwing in:
(a)	The thrower may stay within 5 metres of the touchline
(b)	The thrower may retire to the offside line 10 metres behind the line of touch.
(c)	The thrower may join the lineout as soon as the ball has been thrown in
(d)	The thrower may move into the receiver position if that position is empty
If the thrower goes anywhere else, the thrower is offside
Sanction: Penalty kick on the 15-metre line
129 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
ILaw 1© Touch and Lineout
$
119.12 PEELING OFF
(DEFINITION^
AA lineout player ‘peefMMBkh leaving the lineout to catch the ball knocked or
Passed back by a teat^ndK
(a)	When: A player must not peei off until the ball has left the hands of the player throwing it in.
Sanction: Free r on 15-metre line, in line with the line of touch
ib) A player who peels off, must stay within the area from that player's line of touch Io 10
metres from the line of touch, and must keep moving until the lineout has ended.
Sanction: Free Ki r. on tne 15-metre line, in line with the line of touch.
(c)	Players may change their positions in the lineout before the ball is thrown in.
119.13 OFFSIDE LINES AT THE LINEOUT
(a)	When a lineout forms, there are two separate offside lines, parallel to the goal lines, for the
teams.
(b)	Participating players. One offside line applies to the players taking part in the lineout
(usually some or all of the forwards, plus the scrum half and the player throwing in). Until
the ball is thrown in. and has touched a player or the ground, this offside line is the line of
touch. After that, the offside line is a line through the ball.
(c)	Players not taking part. The other offside line applies to the players not taking part in the
lineout (usually the backs). For them, the offside line is 10 metres behind the line ol touch or
their goal line, if that is nearer.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
2011
130
Law 19 Touch and Lineout

19.14	OFFSIDE WHEN TAKING PART IN THE LINEOUT
(a)	Before the ball has touched a player or the ground. A player must not overstep tne l ine
ol touch. A player is offside if, before the ball has touched a player or the ground, that player
oversteps the line of touch, unless doing so while jumping for the ball. The player must jump
from that player’s side of the line of touch
Sanction: Penalty kick on the 15-metre line
(b)	II a player jumps and crosses the line of touch but fails to catch the ball, that player is not
penalised provided that player gets back onside without delay.
Players jumping for the ball may take a step in any direction providing they do not step
across the line of touch
Sanction: Penalty kick on the 15-metre line
(c)	After the ball has touched a player or the ground. A player not carrying the ball is offcoe
if, after the ball has touched a player or the ground, that player steps in front of the ball.
unless tackling (or trying to tackle) an opponent Any attempt to tackle must start from that
player’s side of the ball
Sanction: Penalty kick on the 15-metre line
(d)	The referee must penalise any player who, intentionally or not. moves into an offside
position without trying to win possession or tackle an opponent.
Sanction: Penalty kick on the 15-metre line
(e)	No player of either team participating in the lineout may leave the lineout until it has ended.
Sanction: Penalty kick on the 15 metre line
131 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
Law 19 Touch and Lineout
(0 Long throw-in. If the player who is throwing in throws the ball beyond the 15-metre line, a
player taking part in the lineout may run infield beyond the 15-metre line as soon as the ball
leaves the hands of the player throwing in.
If this happens, an opponent may also run infield If a player runs infield to take a long throw
in, and the ball is not thrown beyond the 15-metre line, this player is offside and must be
penalised
Sanction: Penal;, kick n the 15-metre line
ig) Ruck and maul from a lineout. When a ruck or a maul develops in a lineout ine offside
line for a player taking part in the lineout no longer runs through the ball. The offside line is
now the hindmost foot of that player’s team in the ruck or maul.
(h)	The lineout ends when the ruck or maul leaves the line of touch. For this to happen, all the
feet of all the players in the ruck or maul must nave left the line of touch
(i)	A player taking part in the lineout must either join the ruck or maul, or retire to the offside
line and slay at that line, otherwise that player is offside.
Sanction: Penalty kick on the 15-metre line
(j)	The rest of the Law of ruck or maul applies. A player must not join the ruck or maul from
the opponents’ side
Sanction: Penalty kick
(k)	Players must not join it in front of the offside line If they do. they are offside.
Sanction: Penalty kick on the 15-metre line
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION KIM 132
Law 19 Touch and Lineout
$
19.15	OFFSIDE WHEN NOT TAKING PART IN THE
(a)	A player who is not taking part in the lineout is offside if that player oversteps the offside
line before the lineout has ended
Sanction: Penalty kick on the offending team's ofls de line opposite the place of
infringement, at least 15 metres from the touchline
(b)	Players not yet onside when the ball is thrown in. A player may throw in the bail even if
a team-mate has not yet reached the offside line However, if this player is not trying to
reach an onside position without delay, this player is offside.
Sanction: Penalty kick on the offending team's o' . line cr-oosile the place of
infringement, at least 15 metres from the touchline
(c)	Long throw in. If the player who is throwing in throws the ball beyond the 15-met/e line, a
player of the same team may run forward to take the ball as soon as the ball leaves the
hands of the player throwing in. If that player does so. opponents may also run forward If a
player runs forward to take a long throw in, and the ball is not thrown beyond the 15-metre
line, this player is offside and must be penalised
Sanction: Penalty kick on the offending team's offside line, opposite the place of
infringement, at least 15 metres from the touchline
(dj Ruck and maul from a lineout. When a ruck or maul develops in a lineout, the lineout has
not ended until all the feet of all the players in the ruck or maul have moved beyond the line
of touch.
Until then, the offside line for players not taking part in the lineout is still 10 metres beh nd
the line of touch, or the goal line if that is nearer A player who oversteps this offside line is
offside.
Sanction: Penalty kick on the offside line, at least 15 metres from the touchline
133 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
ILaw 20 Scrum
IDEFINITIO
ITThe purpose of the so
■nfringement or a sto
AA scrum is formed in
together in three ro
hheads of the front ro
hhatf throws in the ba
hhooking the ball w
TThe middle line of a
ccannot take place wij
TThe tunnel is the soat
restart play quickly, safely and fairly, after a minor
f play when eight players from each team, bound
m, close up with their opponents so that the
ocked. This creates a tunnel into which a scrum
nt row players can compete for possession by
eir feet.
not be within 5 metres of the goal line. A scrum
es of a touchline.
n the two front rows.
Ethrows the ball into the scrum is the scrum half.
Kline on the ground In the tunnel beneath the line
rows meet.
TThe player of either t
TThe middle line is an I
"where the shoulders dffiS
TThe middle player in each front row is the hooker.
TThe players on either side of.the hooker are the props. The left side props are the
Moose head props. The right side props are the tight head props.
TThe two players in the second row who push on the props and the hooker are the
Mocks.
TThe outside players who bind onto the second or third row are the flankers.
TThe player in the third row who usually pushes on both locks is the No.8.
AAftematively, the No. 8 may push on a lock and a flanker.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
Law 20 Scrum
20.1	FORMING A SCRUM
(a)	Where the scmm takes place. The place for a scrum is where the infringement or
stoppage happened, or as near to it as is practicable in the field of play, unless otherwise
stated in Law
(b)	If this is less than 5 metres from a touchline, the place for the scrum is 5 metres from mat
touchline A scmm can take place only in the field of play. The middle line of a scmm must
not be within 5 metres of the goal line when it is formed.
(c)	II there is an infringement or stoppage in in-goal, the place for lhe scmm is 5 metres from
the goal-line. The scmm is formed in line with the infringement or stoppage
(d)	No delay. A team must not intentionally delay forming a scrum.
Sanction: Free Kick
(e)	Number of players: eight. A scrum must have eight players from each team All e ght
players must stay bound to the scmm until it ends. Each front row must have three players
in it, no more and no less Two locks must form the second row
Sanction: Penalty kick
Exception: When a team is reduced Io fewer than Fifteen for any reason, then the number cf
players of each team in the scmm may be similarly reduced. Where a permitted reducton is
made by one team, there is no requirement lor the other team to make a similar reducton
However, a team must not have fewer than five players in the scmm.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(f)	Front rows coming together. First, the referee marks with a foot lhe place where the
scmm is to be formed. Before the two front rows come together they must be standing not
more than an arm's length apart. The ball is in the scmm half's hands, ready to be thrown
in. The front rows must crouch so that when they meet, each player's head and shoulders
are no lower than the hips The front rows must interlock so that no player's head is next to
the head of a team-mate
Sanction: Free Kick
135 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD

Law 20 Scrum

19) The referee will call “crouch" then “touch" The front rows crouch and using their outside
arm each prop touches the point of the opposing prop's outside shoulder. The props then
withdraw their arms. The referee will then call “pause" Following a pause the referee will
then call “engage" The front rows may then engage. The "engage" call is not a command
but an indication that the front rows may come together when ready.
Sanction: Free K
th) A crouched position is the extension ol the normal stance by bending the knees sufficiently
to move into the engagement without a charge.
0 Charging. A front row must not form at a distance from its opponents and rush against
them This is dangerous play
Sanction: Penalty kick
(j) Stationary and parallel. Until the ball leaves the scrum half's hands, the scrum must be
stationary and the middle line must be parallel to the goal Lnes. A team must not shove the
scrum away from the mark before the ball is thrown in.
Sanction: Free Kick
20.2	FRONT-ROW PLAYERS’ POSITIONS
(a)	All players in a position to shove. When a scrum has formed, the body and feet of each
front row player must be in a normal position to make a forward shove.
Sanction: Free Kick
Co) This means that the front row players must have both feel on the ground, with their weight
firmly on at least one foot. Players must not cross their feet, although the foot ol one player
may cross a team-mate's foot Each player's shoulders must be no lower than the hips.
Sanction: Free Kick
(c)	Hooker In a position to hook. Until tne ball is thrown in, the hooker must be in a position
to hook the ball. The hookers must have both feet on the ground, with their weight firmly on
at least one foot A hooker's foremost foot must not be in front of the foremost foot of that
team’s props.
Sanction: Free Kick
136
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
Law 20 Scrum
20.3	BINDING IN THE SCRUM
DEFINITIONS
When a player binds on a team-mate that pl
hand to shoulder to grasp the team-mate’s I
armpit. Placing only a hand on another play*
■
e whole arm from
the level of the
ory binding.
(a) Binding by all front row players. All front row players must bind firmly and continuou
from the start to the finish of the scrum.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(b)	Binding by hookers. The hooker may bind either over or under the arms of the props
props must not support the hooker so that the hooker has no weight on either foot.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(c)	Binding by loose head props. A loose head prop must bind on the opposing tight he
prop by placing the left arm inside the right arm of the tight head and gripping the ti«
head prop's jersey on the back or side. The loose head prop must not grip the chest-
sleeve or collar of the opposition tight head prop. The loose head prop must not exe
downward pressure.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(d)	Binding by tight head props. A tight head prop must bind on the opposing loose
by placing the right arm outside the left upper arm of the opposing loose head pr^
tight head prop must grip the loose head prop s jersey with the right hand only o*
or side The tight head prop must not grip the chest, arm. sleeve or collar of the
loose head prop The tight head prop must not exert any downward pressure.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(e)	Both the loose head and tight head props may alter their bind providing they dczzz
accordance with this Law
Law 20 Scrum

Middle line
Binding by props
(0
•e
back
rtion
(9)
Binding by all other players. All players in a scrum, other than front-row players, must
bind on a lock’s body with at least one arm poor to the scrum engagement. The locks must
bind with the props in front of them. No other player other than a prop may hold an
opponent
Sanction: Penalty kick
Flanker obstructing opposing scrum half. A flanker may bind onto the scrum at any
angle, provided the flanker is properly bound The flanker must not widen that angle and sc
obstruct the opposing scrum half moving forward
Sanction: Penalty kick
(h) Scrum collapse, if a scrum collapses, the referee must blow the whistle immediately s<^«
that players stop pushing.
(D Player forced upwards. If a player in a scrum is lifted in the air, or is forced upwards gc
the scrum, the referee must blow the whistle immediately so that players stop pushing^^
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
Law 20 Scrum

20.4	THE TEAM THROWING THE BALL INTO THE SCRUM
(a)	After an infringement, the team that did not cause the infringement throws in the ball
(b)	Scrum after ruck. Refer to Law 16 7.
(c)	Scrum after maul. Refer to Law 17 6.
(d)	Scrum after any other stoppage. After any other stoppage or irregularity not covered by
Law, the team that was moving forward before the stoppage throws in the ball If neither
team was moving forward, the attacking team throws in the ball
(e)	When a scrum remains stationary and the ball does not emerge immediately a further
scrum is ordered at the place of the stoppage The ball is thrown in by the team not in
possession at the time of the stoppage.
(() When a scrum becomes stationary and does not start moving immediately, the ball must
emerge immediately. If it does not a further scrum will be ordered. The ball is thrown in by
the team not in possession at the time of the stoppage
(g)	If a scrum collapses or lifts up into the air without sanction a further scrum will be ordered
and the team who originally threw in the ball will throw the ball in again
If a scrum has to be reformed for any other reason not covered in this Law the team who
originally threw in the ball will throw the ball in again.
20.5	THROWING THE BALL INTO THE SCRU
T
No Delay. As soon as the front rows have come together, the scrum half must throw in the
ball without delay The scrum half must throw in the ball when told to do so by the referee.
The scrum hall must throw in the ball from the side of the scrum first chosen
Sanction: Free Kick
139 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
Law 20 Scrum
220.6	HOW THE SCRUM HALF THROWS IN THE BALL
(a)	The scrum half must stand one metre from the mark on the middle line so that player s
head does not touch the scrum or go beyond the nearest front row player
Sanction: Free
Co) The scrum half must hold the ball with both hands, with its major axis parallel to toe ground
and to the touchline over the middle line between the front rows, mid-way between knee
and ankle.
Sanction: Frei cl.
Throw in at the scrum
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
140
Law 20 Scrum
(c) The scrum half must throw in the ball at a quick speed. The ball must be released from the
scrum half’s hands from outside the tunnel
Sanction: Free Kick
(d)	The scrum half must throw in the bail straight along the middle line, so that it first touches
the ground immediately beyond the width of the nearer prop's shoulders.
Sanction: Free Kick
(e)	The scrum half must throw in the ball with a single forward movement. This means that
there must be no backward movement with the ball. The scrum half must not pretend Io
throw the ball.
Sanction: Free Kick
20.7	WHEN THE SCRUM BEGINS	______________________
(a)	Play in the scrum begins when the ball leaves the hands of the scrum half
W II the scrum half throws in the ball and it comes out at either end of the tunnel, the ball
must be thrown in again unless a free kick or penalty has been awarded
(c) If the ball is not played by a front row player, and it goes straight through the tunnel and
comes out behind the foot of a far prop without being touched, the scrum half must throw rt
in again.
141 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
Law 20 Scrum
YERS

(a)	Striking before the throw-in (‘foot up'). All front row players must place their feet to leave
a clear tunnel. Until the ball has left the scrum half's hands, they must not raise or advance
a foot. They must not do anything to stop the Dall being thrown in to the scrum correctly or
touching the ground at the correct place.
Sanction: F
(b)	Striking after the throw-in. Once the ball touches the ground in the funnel, any front row
player may use either foot to try to win possession of the ball.
(c)	Kicking-out. A front row player must not intentionally kick the ball out of the tunnel in the
direction from which it was thrown in.
Sanction: Free Kick
(d)	If the ball is kicked out unintentionally, the same learn must throw it in again.
(e)	II the ball is repeatedly Kicked out. the referee must treat this as intentional and penalise the
offender.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(f)	Swinging. A front row player must not strike for the ball with both feet No player may
intentionally raise both feet from the ground, either when the ball is being thrown in or
afterwards
Sanction: Penally kick
(g)	Twisting, dipping or collapsing. Front row players must not twist or lower their bodies, or
pull opponents, or do anything that is likely to collapse the scrum, either when the ball is
being thrown in or afterwards.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(h)	Referees must penalise strictly any intentional collapsing of the scrum This is dangerous play.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(i)	Lifting or forcing an opponent up. A front row player must not lift an opponent in the air,
or force an opponent upwards out of the scrum, either when the ball is being thrown In or
afterwards. This is dangerous play.
Sanction: Penalty kick
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
2011
142
Law 20 Scrum
20.9	SCRUM - GENERAL RESTRICTS
(a)	All players: Collapsing. A player must not intentionally collapse a scrum. A player must not
intentionally fall or kneel in a scrum This is dangerous play
Sanction: Penalty kick
(b)	All players: Handling in the scrum. Players must not handle the ball in the scrum or pick it
up with their legs
Sanction: Penalty kick
(c)	All players: Other restrictions on winning the ball. Players must not try to win the ball in
the scrum by using any part of their body except their foot or lower leg
Sanction: Free Kick
(d)	All players: When the ball comes out, leave it out. When the ball has left the scrum, a
player must not bring it back in to the scrum
Sanction: Free Kick
e) All players: No falling on the ball. A player must not fall on or over the ball as it is coming
out of the scrum.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(f)	Locks and flankers: Staying out of the tunnel. A player who is not a front row player
must not play the ball in the tunnel.
Sanction: Free Kick
(g)	Scrum half: Kicking in the scrum. A scrum hall must not kick the ball while it is in the
scrum.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(h)	Scrum half: Dummying. A scrum half must not lake any action to make the opponents
think that the ball is out of the scrum while it is still in the scrum
Sanction: Free Kick
(i)	Scrum half: Holding opposing flanker. A scrum half must not grasp an opposing flanker.
Sanction: Penalty kick
143 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
Law 20 Scrum
The ball comes out. When the ball comes out of the scrum in any direction except the
tunnel, the scrum ends.
(b)	Scrum in the in-goal. A scrum cannot take place in the in-goal. When the Dall in a scrum is
on or over the goal line, the scrum ends ana an attacker or a defender may legally ground
the ball for a try or a touch down
(c)	Hindmost player unbinds. The hindmost player in a scrum is the player whose leet are
nearest the team’s own goal line II the hindmost player unbinds from the scrum with the
ball at that player's feet and picks up the ball, the scrum ends.
20-11 SCRUM WHEELED
(a)	If a scrum is wheeled through more than 90 degrees, so that the middle line has passed
beyond a position parallel to the touchline, the referee must slop play and order another
scrum.
(b)	This new scrum is formed at the place where the previous scrum ended. The ball is thrown
in by the team not in possession at the time of the stoppage If neither team win
possession, it is thrown in by the team that previously threw it in.
20.12	OFFSIDE AT THE SCRUM
(a)	When the scrum is set. the scrum half not throwing the ball into the scrum must take up a
position either at the same side of the scrum as the scrum half throwing in the ball or
behind the offside line defined for other players.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
2011
144
Law 20 Scrum
(b)	Offside for scrum-halves. When a team has won the ball in a scrum, the scrum half of that
team is offside if both feet are in front of the ball while it is still in the scrum. If the scrum
hall has only one foot in front of the ball, the scrum half is not offside
Sanction: Penalty kick
5 metres
5 metres
Scrum offside
r blue players
>n the scrum
	
	
	
Ball	
	
Offside line : Blue scrum hall
• Offside line for blue scrum half
Offside line for yellow scrum half
when not playing ball
Offside line for yellow players
who are not in the scrum
145 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
Law 20 Scrum
(c)	When a team has won the ball in a scrum, the scrum half of the opposing team is offside if
that scrum half steps in from ol the ball with either foot while the ball is still in the scrum
Sanction: Penalty f . k
(d)	The scrum hall whose team does not win possession of the ball must not move to the
opposite side of the scrum and overstep the offside line. For that scrum half that runs
through the hindmost foot of that player's team in the scrum.
Sanction: Prualty !vck
(e)	The scrum half whose team does not win possession of the ball must not move away from
the scrum and then remain in front of the offside line For that scrum half that runs through
the hindmost foot of that player’s team in the scrum.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(0 Any player may be scrum half, but a team can have only one scrum half al each scrum.
Sanction: Penalty kick on the offside line
(g) Offside for players not in the scrum. Players who are not in the scrum and who are not
the team's scrum half, are offside if they remain in front of their offside line or overstep the
offside line which is a line parallel to the goal lines and 5 metres behind the hindmost player
of each team in a scrum
Sanction: Penalty kick on the offside line
(h)	If the hindmost foot of a team is on or behind that team’s goal line, the offside line for
scrum halves and non-participants is the goal line.
0) Loitering. When a scrum is forming, players not taking part in it must retire to their offside
line without delay If they do not, they are loitering. Loiterers must be penalised.
Sanction: Penalty kick on the offside line
20.13	UNDER 19 VARIATIONS IN ADULT MATCHES
A Union may implement the Under 19 Scrum Law Variations al defined levels ol the Game within
its jurisdiction.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
2011
146
Law Penalty and Free Kicks
DEFINITIONS
Penalty kicks and free kicks are awarded to the
infringements by their opponents.
21.1	WHERE PENALTY AND FREE KICI__________
Unless a Law stales otherwise, the mark for a penally or free kick is at tne place of
infringement.
21.2	WHERE PENALTY AND FREE KICI
(a)
(b)
The kicker must take the penalty or free kick at the mark or anywhere behind it on a line
through the mark II the place for a penalty or free kick is within 5 metres of the opponents’
goal line the mark for the kick is 5 metres from the goal line, opposite the place of
infnngement.
When a penalty or free kick is awarded in in-goal, the mark for the kick is in the field ol
play, 5 metres from the goal line, in line with the place of infringement
Sanction: Any infringement by the kicker’s team results in a scrum 5 metres from the goal
line in line with the mark. The opposing team throws in the ball
(a)	Any player may take a penalty or free kick awarded for an infringement with any type of
kick, punt, drop kick or place kick. The ball may be kicked with any part of the lower leg
from knee to the foot, excluding the knee and the heel
147 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
Law 2 “H Penalty and Free Kicks

(b)	Bouncing the ball on the knee is not taking a kick.
Sanction: Any infringement by the kicker's team results in a scrum at the mark. The
opposing team thrc »s in the ball
(c)	The kicker must use the ball that was in play unless the referee decides it was defective.
Sanction: An. infn. jement by the kicker's team results in a scrum at the mark. The
opposing team thr- vs in the ball.
21.4 PEN

(a)	Scrum alternative. A team awarded a penalty or free kick may choose a scrum instead
They throw in the ball.
(b)	No delay. If a kicker indicates to the referee the intention Io kick a penalty kick at goal, the
kick must be taken within one minute from the time the player indicates the intention to
kick at goal The intention to kick is signalled by the arrival of the kicking tee or sand, or
when the player makes a mark on the ground The player must complete the kick within one
minute even if the ball rolls over and has to be placed again. If the one minute is exceeded.
the kick is disallowed, a scrum is ordered at the place of the mark and the opponents throw
in the ball. For any other type of kick, the kick must be taken witnout undue delay.
(c)	A clear kick. The kicker must kick the ball a visible distance. If the kicker is holding it, it
must clearly leave the hands. If it is on the ground, it must clearly leave the mark.
(d)	Place kicking for touch. The kicker may punt or drop kick for touch but must not place
kick for toucn.
(e)	Kicker's freedom of action. The kicker is free to kick the ball in any direction and may
play the ball again
(f)	Kick taken in the in-goal. If a player retires into in-goal to take a penalty or free kick
awarded in the field of play and a defending player by foul play prevents an opponent from
scoring a try a penalty try is awarded.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
148
Law 21 Penalty and Free Kicks
&
(g)	Out of play in the in-goal. II a player retires into in-goal to take a penalty or free kick
awarded in the field of play and following the kick the ball goes into touch-in-goal, or on or
over the dead ball line, or a defending player makes the ball dead before it has crossed the
goal line, a 5-metre scrum is awarded. The attacking team throws in the ball.
th) Behind the ball. All the kicker’s team at a penalty or free kick must be behind the ball until
il has been kicked, except the placer for a place kick
(i)	Kick taken quickly. II the penalty or free kick is taken so quickly that players of the
kicker's team are still in front of the ball, they are not penalised for being offside However.
they must retire immediately. They must not stop retiring until they are onside They must
not take part in the game until they are onside This applies to all players of that team,
whether they are inside or outside the playing area
(j)	In this situation, players become onside when they run behind the team-mate who took tne
penalty or free kick, or when a team-mate carrying the ball runs in front of them, or when a
team-male who was behind the ball when it was kicked runs in front of them.
(k)	An offside player cannot be put onside by any action of an opponent.
Sanction: Unless otherwise stated in Law any infringement by the kicker's team results in a
scrum at the mark The opposing team throw in the ball
21.5	SCORING A GOAL FROM A PENALTY KICK
(a) A penalty goal can be scored from a penalty kick.
(b)	If the kicker indicates to the referee the intention to kick at goal, the kicker must kick at
goal. Once the kicker has made the intention clear, there can be no change of the intention.
The referee may enquire of the kicker as to the intention.
(c)	If the kicker indicates to the referee the intent to kick at goal, the opposing team must stand
still with their hands by their sides from the time the kicker starts to approach to kick until
the ball is kicked
(d)	If the kicker has not indicated an intention to kick at goal but takes a drop kick and scores a
goal, the goal stands.
149 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
Law 21 Penalty and Free Kicks

(e)	If the opposing team infringes while the kick is being taken but the kick at goal is
successful, the goal stands A further penalty is not awarded for the infringement.
lO The kicker may place the ball directly on the ground or on sand, sawdust or a kicking tee
approved by the Union.
Sanction: Uni s o rwise slated in Law any infringement by the kicker s team resu is in a
scrum at the r ark me opposing team throws in the ball.
Penalty kick at goal
150
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
Law 2 H Penalty and Free Kicks
21.6	SCORING FROM A FREE KICK
(a) A goal cannot be scored from a free kick
(b)	The team awarded a free kick cannot score a dropped goal until after the ball next becomes
dead, or until after an opponent has played or touched it. or has tackled the ball carrier This
restriction applies also to a scrum taken instead of a free kick.
21.7	WHAT THE OPPOSING TEAM MUST DO AT A PENALTY KICK
(a) Must run from the mark. The opposing team must immediately run towards their own goal
line until they are at least 10 metres away from the mark for the penalty kick, or until they
have reached their goal line if that is nearer the mark
(b) Must keep running. Even if the penalty kick is taken and the kicker's team is playing the
ball, opposing players must keep running until they have retired the necessary distance.
They must not take part in the game until they have done so
(c)	Kick taken quickly. If the penalty kick is taken so quickly that opponents have no
opportunity to retire, they will not be penalised for this However, they must continue to
retire as descnbed in 21 7(b) above or until a team-mate who was 10 metres from the mark
has run in front of them, before they take part in the game.
(d)	Interference. The opposing team must not do anything to delay the penalty kick or obstruct
the kicker They must not intentionally take, throw or kick the ball out of reach of the kicker
or the kicker's team mates.
Sanction: Any infringement by the opposing team results in a second penalty kick, 10
metres in front of the mark for the first kick This mark must not be within 5 metres of the
goal line Any player may take the kick The kicker may change the type of kick and may
choose to kick at goal If the referee awards a second penalty kick, the second penalty kick
is not taken before the referee has made the mark indicating the place of the penalty
151 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
Law 21 Penalty and Free Kicks

21.8	WHAT OPTIONS THE OPPOSING TEAM HAVE AT A FREE KICK
(a)	Must run from the mark. The opposing team must immediately run towards their own goal
line until they are at least 10 metres away from the mark for the free kick, or until they have
reached their goal line if that is nearer the mark If the free kick is in a defending teams in-
goal area, the opposing team must immediately run towards their own goal line until they
are at least 10 metres away from the mark and not nearer than 5 metres from the goal line.
(b) Must keep running. Even if the free kick is taken and the kicker’s team is playing the ball.
opposing players must keep running until they have retired the necessary distance. They
must not take part in the game until they have done so.
(c)	Kick taken quickly. If the free kick is taken so quickly that opponents have no opportunity
to retire, they will not be penalised for this. However, they must continue to retire as
described in 21 8(b) above or until a team mate who was 10 metres from the mark has run
in front of them, before they take part in the game.
(d)	Interference. The opposing team must not do anything to delay the free kick or obstruct th
kicker, lhey must not intentionally take, throw or kick the ball out of reach of the kicker or
the kicker’s team mates.
(e)	Charging the free kick. Once they have retired the necessary distance, players of the
opposing team may charge and try to prevent the kick being taken They may charge the
free kick as soon as the kicker starts to approach to kick.
(f)	Preventing the free kick. If the opposing team charge and prevent the free kick being
taken, the kick is disallowed Play restarts with a scrum at the mark. The opposing team
throw in the ball
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
2011
152
Law 2 i Penalty and Free Kicks
(g)	Free kick taken in the in-goal. If a free kick has been awarded and the player retires into
in-goal to lake it and the opponents charge and prevent the kick from being taken, a 5-
melre scrum is ordered. The attacking team throws in the ball. II a free kick is taken in the
in-goal, an opponent who legitimately plays it there can score a try
(h)	Charged down. If opponents charge down a free kick in the playing area, play continues.
Sanction: Any infringement by the opposing team results in a second free kick, awarded 10
metres in front of the mark for the first kick. This mar?, must not be within 5 metres of the
goal line Any player may take the kick. If the referee: rds a second free kick, the second
free kick is not taken before the referee has made the > irk indi: ‘dng the place of the free
kick.
21.9	CONTRIVED INFRINGEMENTS AT THE PENALTY KICK
II the releree believes that the kicker’s team has contrived an infringement by their
opponents, the referee does not award a further penalty but allows play to continue
(a) The kicker must not pretend to kick. As soon as the kicker makes a move to kick, the
opponents may charge
(b) if the referee believes that the kicker's team has contrived an infringement by their
opponents, the referee does not award a further free kick but allows play to continue
153 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
DURING THE
I In-goal
' Law 22 In-Goal
Law 22 In-Goal
ball rjjay be grounded
■goal, the
ending
al who
In-goal is part of the ground as defined In Law 1 w
by players from either team.
When attacking players are first to ground the ball
attacking players score a try.
When defending players are first to ground the bal
players make a touch down.
A defending player who has one foot on the goal lj
receives the ball is considered to have both feet In
Grounding the ball
155 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
!Law 22 In-Goal

There are two ways a player can ground the ball:
(a)	Player touches the ground with the ball. A player grounds the ball by holding the ball and
touching the ground with it, in m-goal. 'Holding' means holding in the hand or hands, or in
the arm or arms No downward pressure is required.
|b) Player presses down on the ball. A player grounds the ball when it is on the ground in the
in-goal and the player presses down on it v/ith a hand or hands, arm or arms, or the front of
the player's body from waist to neck inclusive
z ■
UP THE BALL
Picking up the ball from the ground is not grounding it. A player may pick up the ball in the
m-goal and ground it elsewhere in the in-goal.
222.3	BALL GROUNDED BY AN ATTACKING PLAYER

(a)	Try. When an attacking player who is onside is first to ground the ball in the opponents' in-
goal, the player scores a try. This applies whether an attacking or a defending player is
responsible for the ball being in the in-goal.
Co) When an attacking player who has possession of the ball grounds the ball in in-goal and
simultaneously contacts the touch-m-goal line or the dead-ball-lme (or anywhere beyond), a
22m drop-out is awarded to the defending team.
„ _______________________________________ -
: 22.4 OTHER WAYS TO SCORE A TRY
(a) Grounded on the goal line. The goal line is part ol the in-goal. If an attacking player is first
to ground the ball on the opponents' goal line, a try is scored.
(b)	Grounded against a goal post. The goal posts and padding surrounding them are part of
the goal line, which is part of in-goal If an attacking player is first to ground the ball against
a goal post or padding, a try is scored
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
156
Law 22 In-Goal

Scoring atry- grounded against the goal post
(C)
Pushover try. A scrum or ruck
cannot lake place in lhe m-goal
If a scrum or ruck is pushed into
the in-goal, an attacking player
may legally ground the ball as
soon as the ball reaches or
crosses the goal line and a try is
scored.
157 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
Law 22 In-Goal
(d) Momentum try. If an attacking player with the ball is tackled short of the goal line but the
player's momentum carries the player in a continuous movement along the ground into the
opponents' in-goal, and the player is first to ground the ball, a try is scored.
(e) Tackled near the goal line, if a player is tackled near to the opponents' goal line so that
this player can immediately reach out and ground the ball on or over the goal line, a try is
scored
(0 In this situation, defending players who are on their feet may legally prevent the try by
pulling the ball from the tackled player's hands or arms, but must not kick the ball.
(g) Player in touch or touch-in-
goal. If an attacking player is in
touch or in touch-in-goal, the
player can score a try by
grounding the ball in the
opponents' m-goal provided the
player is not carrying the ball
(h) Penalty try. A penalty try is
awarded if a try would probably
have been scored but for foul
play by the defending team. A
penalty try is awarded if a try
would probably have been
scored in a better position but
for foul play by the defending
team
(0 A penalty try is awarded
between the goal posts. The
defending team may charge the
conversion kick after a penalty
try.
Player in touch-in-goal, not
carrying the ball but
grounding the ball and
scoring a try
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
158
Law 22 In-Goal
&
22.5	BALL GROUNDED BY A DEFENDING PLAYER____________
(a) Touch down. When defending players are first to ground the ball in their m-goal, it results in
a touch down.
(b)	Player in touch or touch-in-goal. If defending players are in touch-in-goal, they can make
a touch down by grounding the ball in their in-goal provided they are not carrying the ball.
(c)	Grounded against a goal post. The goal posts and padding surrounding them are part of
the goal line. If a defending player is first to ground the ball against a goal post or padding.
the result is a touch down
22.6	SCRUM, RUCK OR MAUL PUSHED INI
A scrum, ruck or maul can take place only in the field of play. As soon as a scrum, ruck or
maul is pushed across the goal line, a player may legally ground the ball.This results in a
touch down or try.
(a) When an attacking player sends or carries the ball into the opponents' in-goal and it
becomes dead there, either because a defender grounded it or because it went into touch-
in-goal or on or over the dead ball line, a drop-out is awarded
(b)	If an attacking player knocks-on or throws-forward in the field of play and the ball goes into
the opponents' in-goal and it is made dead there, a scrum is awarded where the knock-on
or throw forward happened
(c)	If, at a kick-off or drop-out, the ball is kicked into the opponents' in-goal without having
touched or been touched by a player and a defending player grounds it there or makes it
dead without delay, the defending team nave two choices.
To have a scrum formed at the centre of the line from which the kick was taken and they
throw in the ball; or
To have the other team kick off or drop out again
159 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
(d)	if a defending player threw or took the ball into the in-goal, and a defending player
grounded it, and there has been no infringement, play is restarted by a 5-metre scrum. The
position of the scrum is in line with where the ball has been touched down. The attacking
side throws in the ball.
(e)	If a defending team has put the ball into their own in-goal and a defending player kicks the
ball so that is charged down in in -goal and then made dead, the attacking side is awarded a
5-metre scrum in line with where the ball is made dead and they throw in the ball.
If a team kicks the ball through their opponents' in-goal into louch-m-goal or on or over the
dead ball line, except by an unsuccessful kick at goal or attempted dropped goal, the
defending team has two choices-
To have a drop-out.
or
To have a scrum at the place where the ball was kicked and they throw in
\YER IN IN-GOAL
(a) A defending player who has part of one foot in m-goal is considered to have both feet in in-
goal.
Co) If a player with one or both feet on or behind the goal line, picks up the ball, which was
stationary within the field of play, that player has picked up the ball in the field of play and
thereby that player has taken the ball into m-goal.
(c)
If a player with one or both feet on or behind the goal line picks up the ball, which was in
motion within the field of play, that player has picked up the ball within m-goal.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
160
Law 22 In-Goal
(d) II a player with one or both feet on or behind the dead ball line, picks up the ball, which was
stationary within in-goal, that player deemed has picked up the ball in in-goal and thereby
that player has made the ball dead
(e) If a player with one or both feet on or behind the dead ball line picks up the ball, which was
in motion within in-goal, that player has picked up the ball outside the playing area.
22.10	BALL HELD UP IN-GOAL
When a player carrying the ball is held up in the in-goal so that the player cannot ground
the ball, the ball is dead A 5-metre scrum is formed. This would apply if play similar to a
maul takes place in m-goal. The attacking team throws in the ball
22.11	BALL DEAD IN IN-GOAL	___________
(a) When the ball touches the touch-in-goal line or the dead ball line, or touches anything or
anyone beyond those lines, the ball becomes deao If the ball was played into in-goal by the
attacking team, a drop-out shall be awarded to the defending team If lhe ball was played
into in-goal by the defending team, a 5-metre scrum shall be awarded and the attacking
team throws in the ball
(b) When a player carrying the ball touches the touch-m-goal line, the dead ball line, or touches
the ground beyond those lines, lhe ball becomes dead. If the ball was carried into in-goal Dy
the attacking team, a drop-out shall be awarded to the defending team If the ball was
carried into in-goal by the defending team, a 5-metre scrum shall be awarded and the
attacking team throws in the ball
(c)	When a player scores a try or makes a touch down, lhe ball becomes dead
22.12	BALL OR PLAYER TOUCHING A FLAG OR FLAG (CORNER) POST
If the ball or a player carrying lhe ball touches a flag or a flag (corner) post at the
intersection of the touch-in-goal lines and the goal lines or at the intersection of the touch-
in-goal lines and the dead ball lines without otherwise being in touch or touch-m-goal the
ball is not out of play unless it is first grounded against a flag post.
161 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD
ILaw 22 In-Goal
&
Player touches corner post before ball is grounded
it an attacking player commits an infringement in in-goal, for which the sanction is a scrum.
for example, a knock-on. play is restarted with a 5-metre scrum The scrum is formed in
line wnh the place of the infringement and the defending team throws in the ball.
22.14 DEFENDING INFRINGEMENT WITH SCRUM SANCTION
If a defending player infringes in m-goal. for which the sanction is a scrum, tor example, a
knock-on. play is restarted with a 5-melre scrum. The scrum is formed in line with the place
of the infringement and the attacking team throws in the ball.
22.15 DOUBT ABOUT GROUNDING
If there is doubt about which team first grounded the ball in the in-goal, play is re-started by
a 5-metre scrum, in line with the place where fhe ball was grounded The attacking team
throws in the ball
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
162
Law 22 In-Goal
22.16	INFRINGEMENTS IN IN-GOAL_______________________
All infringements in the m-goal are treated as if they had taken place in the field of play.
A knock-on or a throw forward in the in-goal results in a 5-metre scrum, opposite the place
of infringement
Sanction: For an Infringement, the mark for a penalty kick cr free kick cannot be in the in-
goal. When a penalty kick or free kick is awarded for an infringement in the In-goal, the
mark for the kick is in the field of play. 5 metres from the c.oal line, opposite the place of
infringement
22.17	MISCONDUCT OR UNFAIR PLAY IN IN-GOJ	_______
(a) Obstruction by the attacking team. When a player charges or intentionally obstructs an
opponent in the in-goal who has just kicked the ball, the opponent's team may choose to
lake the penalty kick either in the field of play, 5 metres from the goal line opposite the
place of infringement, or where the ball landed
If they make the second choice and the ball lands in or near touch, the mark for the penalty
kick is 15 metres from the touchline, opposite where the ball went into touch or where it
landed.
A try is disallowed and a penalty kick awarded if a try would probably not have been scored
but for foul play by the attacking team.
(b) Foul play by the defending team. The referee awards a penalty try if a try would probably
have been scored but for foul play by the defending team
The referee awards a penalty try if a try would probably have been scored in a better
position but for foul play by me defending team
A penalty try is awarded between the goal posts The defending team may charge the
conversion kick after a penalty try
A player who prevents a try being scored through foul play must either be cautioned and
temporarily suspended or sent off
(c)	Any other foul play. When a player commits any other foul play in the in-goal while the ball
is out of play, the penalty kick is awarded at the place where the game would otherwise
have re-started
Sanction: Penalty kick
163 INTERNATIONAL RUGBY BOARD