1
RUGBY.
Foreword
Definitions
____________________________
foreword .
The object of the Game is that two teams of fifteen or seven players each, observing fair play
according to the Laws and sporting spirit, should by carrying, passing, kicking and grounding the
ball, score as many points as possible, the team scoring the greater number of points being the
winner of the match.
The Laws of the Game, including the standard set of variations for Under 19 Rugby and Sevens
Rugby, are complete and conta n all that is necessary to enable the Game to be played correct.)
and fairly.
Rugby Union is a sport which involves physical contact. Any sport involving physical conh
has inherent dangers. It is very Important that players play the Game in accordance with
the Laws of the Game and be mindful of the safety of themselves and others.
It is the responsibility of players to ensure that they are physically and technically prep*-
in a manner which enables them to play the Game, comply with the Laws of the Game anc
participate in accordance with safe practices.
It is the responsibility of those who coach or teach the Game to ensure that players are
prepared in a manner which ensures compliance with the Laws of the Game and in
accordance with safe practices.
It is the duty of the referee to apply fairly all the Laws of the Game in every match except when?
experimental Law variation has been authorised by the World Rugby Council.
It is the duty of rhe Unions to ensure that the game at every level is conducted in accordance v “
discip.ined and sporting behaviour. This principle cannot be upheld solely by the referee, its
observance also rests on Unions, affiliated bodies and clubs.
A
Actual time: Elapsed time including time lost for any reason.
Advantage: Law 8 - Advantage.
Assistant referee: Law 6 - Match Officials
Attacking team: The opponents of the defending team in whose half of the ground
play is taking place
B
Ball carrier: A player carrying lhe ball.
Beyond or behind or in front of a position: Means with both feet, except where the
context makes that inappropriate.
Binding: Grasping firmly another player’s body between the shoulders and the hips with
the whole arm in contact from hand to shoulder.
c
Captain: The captain is a player nominated by the team Only the captain is entitled to
consult the referee during lhe match and is solely responsible for choosing options
relating to the referee's decisions.
Cavalry charge: Law 10 - Foul Play
Conversion kick: Law 9 - Method of Scoring.
Converted: A conversion kick that was successful.
D
Dangerous play: Law 10 • Foul Play.
Dead: The ball is out of play. This happens when the ball has gone outside the playing
area and remained there, or when the referee has blown the whistle to indicate a
stoppage in play, or when a conversion kick has been taken
Dead ball line: Law 1 - The Ground
Defending team: The team in whose half of the ground play is taking place; their
opponents are the attacking team
3
WORLD RUGBY
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
2015
Definitions
WtXlD
RUGBY.
Drop kick: The ball is dropped from the hand or hands to the ground and kicked as it
rises from its first bounce
Drop out: Law 13 ■ Kick-Off and Restart Kicks
Dropped goal: Law 9 - Method of Scoring.
Field of play: Law 1 - The Ground.
Flanker: Forward player who usually wears jersey No 6 or No.7.
Flying wedge: Law 10 - Foul Play
Foul play: Law 10 • Foul Play
Free kick: Law 21 - Penalty and Free Kicks A kick awarded to the non-offending team
after an infringement by its opponents Unless a Law stales otherwise, a free kick
awarded because of an infringement is awarded at the place of infringement
ont row players: Law 20 - Scrum The forward players who are the loose-head prop
le hooker and rhe tight head prop. These players usually wear jersey No. 1.2 and 3
spectively.
i
>al: A player scores a goal by kicking the ball over an opponents’ crossbar and betwee
e goal posts from the field of play, by a place kick or drop kick. A goal cannot be score-'
im a kick-off. drop out or free kick.
•al line: Law 1 • The Ground
ounding the ball: Law 22 ■ In-Goal
If-time: The interval between the two halves of the game
id-off: An action taken by a ball carrier to fend off an opponent by using the palm a
hand.
dmost foot: The foot of the hindmost player in a scrum, ruck or maul which is
rest that player’s goal-line
»ker: Law 20 - Scrum. The middle front row player in a scrum who usually wears
?y No. 2.
VORLD RUGBY
(Definitions
WORLD
RUGBY.
II
I In-field: Away from touch and towards the middle of the field.
I In-goal: Law 22 - In-Goal.
IK
KKick: A kick is made by hitting the ball with any parr of the leg or foot, except the heel,
ffrom the roe to the knee but not including the knee; a kick must move the ball a visible
distance out of the hand, or along the ground
Kick-off: Lav/13 ■ Kick-off and Restart Kicks.
Knock-on: Law 12 • Knock-on or Throw-forward
IL
L.ifting: Lav/19 Touch and Lineout
L.ine of touch: Law 19 - Touch and Lineout. An imaginary line at right angles to the
toouchline at the place where the ball is thrown in from touch.
L.ineout: Lav/19 - Touch and Lineout
L.ine through the mark or place: Unless stated otherwise, a line parallel to the
toouchline
L'.ong throw: Law 19 • Touch and Lineout.
Ltoose-head prop: Law 20 - Scrum The left front row player in a scrum who usually wears
jersey No 1
MA
AMatch organiser: the organisation responsible for the match which may be a Union, a
gi|roup of Unions or an organisation affiliated to World Rugby
AMark: Law 18 - Mark
Miaul: Law 17 • Maul
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
2015
Definitions
1)
WORLD
RUGBY.
A
Actual time: Elapsed time including time lost for any reason.
Advantage: Law 8 • Advantage.
Assistant referee: Law 6 ■ Match Officials
Attacking team: The opponents of the defending team in whose half of the ground
play is taking place.
B
Ball carrier: A player carrying the ball.
Beyond or behind or in front of a position: Means with both feet, except where the
context makes that inappropriate.
Binding: Grasping firmly another player's body between the shoulders and the hips with
the whole arm in contact from hand to shoulder
c
Captain: The captain is a player nominated by the team. Only the captain is entitled to
consult the referee during the match and Is solely responsible for choosing options
relating to the referee’s decisions.
Cavalry charge: Law 10 Foul Play.
Conversion kick: Law 9 - Method of Scoring,
Converted: A conversion kick that was successful.
D
Dangerous play: Law 10 - Foul Play.
Dead: The ball is out of play. This happens when the ball has gone outside the playing
area and remained there, or when the referee has blown the whistle to indicate a
stoppage in play, or when a conversion kick has been taken.
Dead ball line: Law 1 - The Ground
Defending team: The team in whose half of the ground play is taking place; their
opponents are the attacking team.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
Drop kick: The ball is dropped from the hand or hands to the ground and kicked as it
rises from its first bounce
Drop out: law 13 - Kick-Off and Restart Kicks.
Dropped goal: Law 9 - Method of Scoring.
F
Field of play: Law 1 ■ The Ground.
Flanker: Forward player who usually wears jersey No.6 or No 7
Flying wedge: Law 10 • Foul Play.
Foul play: Law 10 • Foul Play
Free kick: Law 21 - Penalty and Free Kicks. A kick awarded to the non -of fending team
after an infringement by its opponents. Unless a Law states otherwise, a free kick
awarded because of an infringement is awarded at the place of infringement
Front row players: Law 20 - Scrum. The forward players who are the loose-head prop.
the hooker and the tight-head prop. These players usually wear jersey No. 1,2 and 3
respectively.
G
Goal: A player scores a goal by kicking the ball over an opponents’ crossbar and between
the goal posts from the field of play, by a place kick or drop-kick A goal cannot be score;
from a kick-off. drop-out or free kick.
Goal line: Law 1 - The Ground
Grounding the ball: Law 22 - In-Goal
H
Half-time: The interval between the two halves of the game.
t he hand ' ° t3<en 3 ba"Carfier'° ^enc^ an °PP°nent by using the palm &
nXXXeXfo:i'-«n;hehindmOStP^
jerseXL2W20SCrUmThemiddlefr0ntrowPlayerin^scrumwhousua1lywears
5
WORLD RUGBY
Definitions
__________________________
WORLD
RUGBY.
I
In-field: Away from touch and towards the middle of the field.
In-goal: Law 22 • In-Goal.
K
Kick: A kick Is made by hitting the ball with any part of the leg or foot, except the heel.
from the toe to the knee but not including the knee; a kick must move the ball a visible
distance out of the hand, or along the ground.
Kick-off: Law 13 - Kick-off and Restart Kicks
Knock-on: Law 12 ■ Knock-on or Throw-forward.
L
Lifting: Law 19 ■ Touch and Lineout.
Line of touch: Law 19 - Touch and Lineout. An imaginary line al right angles to the
touchline ar the place where the ball is thrown in from touch
Lineout: Law 19 - Touch and Lineout
Line through the mark or place: Unless stated otherwise, a line parallel to the
touchline.
Long throw: Law 19 ■ Touch and Lineout
Loose-head prop: Law 20 - Scrum. The left front row player in a scrum who usually wears
jersey No. 1
M
Match organiser: the organisation responsible for the match which may be a Union, a
group of Unions or an organisation affiliated to World Rugby.
Mark: Law 18 - Mark.
Maul: Law 17 -Maul
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
2015 1
6
Definitions
WORLD
RUGBY.
N
Near: Within one metre.
0
Obstruction: Law 10 - Foul Play.
Offside: Law 11 ■ Offside and Onside in General Play
Offside line: An imaginary line across the ground, from one touchline to the other.
parallel to the goal-lines; the position of this line varies according to the Lav/
Offside under the 10-Metre Law: Law 11 - Offside and Onside in General Play
Onside: Lav/11 - Offside and Onside in General Play.
Open or bleeding wound: Law 3 - Number of Players -The Team.
Out of play. This happens when the ball or the ball carrier has gone into touch or touch
in-goal, or Touched or crossed the dead ball line
Oversteps: A player steps across a line with one or both feet; the line may be real (for
example, goal-line) or imaginary (for example, offside line).
P
Pass: A player throws the ball to another player; if a player hands the ball to another
player without throwing it, this is also a pass.
Peeling off: Law 19 - Touch and Lineout.
Penalty goal: Law 9 - Method of Scoring.
Penalty kick: Law 21 ■ Penalty and Free Kicks ■ A kick awarded to the non-offending
team after an infringement by its opponents. Unless a Law says otherwise, a penalty kid
is awarded at the place of infringement.
Penalty try: Law 10 Foul Play.
Place kick: The ball is kicked after it has been placed on the ground for that purpose.
P ed th ' ? 'he bai'on 'he 8'0u"d 3 team mate to kick
P ayed. The ball is played wen it is touched by a player
Playing area: Law 1-The Ground.
Playing enclosure: Law 1 - The Ground.
WORLD RUGBY
Playing time: The time that has been played excluding time lost as defined in
Law 5 - Time.
Possession: This happens when a player is carrying the ball or a team has the ball in its
conlrol: for example, the ball in one half of a scrum or ruck is in that team's possession.
Pre-gripping: Law 19 • Touch and Lineout. Gripping a team-mate in the lineout prior to
the ball being thrown in.
Prop: Law 20 ■ Scrum. A front row player to the left or right of the hooker in a scrum.
These players usually wear jersey No’s. 1 and 3
Punt: The ball is dropped from the hand or hands and kicked before it touches the
ground.
Pushover try: Law 22 - In-Goal.
R
Receiver: Law 19 - Touch and Lineout.
Red Card: A card, red in colour shown to a player who has been sent off for contravening
Law 10 • Foul Play. Law A 5(c)
Referee: Law 6 - Match Officials.
Repeated infringements: Law 10 - Foul Play
Replacements: Law 3 - Number of Players - The Team
Ruck: Law 16 - Ruck
s
Sanction: The punitive action taken by the referee against an infringing player or team
Scrum: Law 20 ■ Scrum. This happens when players from each team come together in
scrum formation so that play can be started by throwing the ball into the scrum.
Scrum half: A player nominated to throw the ball into a scrum who usually wears jersey
No. 9
Sin bin: The designated area in which a temporarily suspended player must remain for
10 minutes playing time
Substitutes: Law 3 - Number of Players - The Team.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
Definitions
Tackle: Law 15 Tackle Ball Carrier Brought to the Ground
Team-mate: Another player of the same team.
Temporarily suspended: Law 10 - Foul Play
The plan: Law 1 The Ground.
The 22: Law 1 - The Ground.
Throw-forward: Law 12 - Knock On or Throw-Forward
Throw-in: The act of the player who throws the ball into a scrum or a lineout.
Tight-head prop: Law 20 - Scrum. The right front row player in a scrum who usually wer-
jersey No. 3.
Touch: Law 19 - Touch and Lineout
Touch down: Law 22 ■ In-goal.
Touchline: Law 1 - The Ground.
Touch-in-goal line: Law 1 - The Ground.
Touch judge: Law 6 - Match Officials.
Try: Law 9 Method of Scoring.
u
Uncontested scrum: An uncontested scrum is the same as a normal scrum, except th-
the teams do not compete for the ball; the team throwing in the ball must win it, and
neither team is allowed to push.
Union: Tne controlling body under whose jurisdiction the match is played, for an
international match it means World Rugby or a Committee of World Rugby
Y
9
WORLD RUGBY
Before the match
Law 1 The Ground
Law 2 The Ball
Law 3 Number of Players-The Team
Law 4 Players’Clothing
Law 5 Time
Law 6 Match Officials
WORLD
RUGBY
Playing enclosure
Perimeter area
26
RUGBY.
al linesand
Iaw1 The Ground
rn on the pi
•f the playiq
ii
definitions
The Ground is the total area shown on the plan. The Grou
The Field of play is the area (as shown o" the plan) betw
the touchlines. These lines are not part of the field of play.
The Playing Area is the field of play and the In-goal areas (a
The touchlines, touch-In-goal lines and dead ball lines are not
area.
The Playing Enclosure is the playing area and a space arouj
metres where practicable, which is known as the perimeter at
In-goal is the area between the goal line and the dead ball Ur
touch-In-goal lines. It includes the goal line but it does not inc
line or the touch-in-goal lines.
‘The 22’ Is the area between the goal line and the 22-metre line, Including the
metre line but excluding the goal line.
The Plan, including all the words and figures on It, is part of the Laws.
got less than
id between t:
the dead bat

(a) Requirement. The surface must be safe to play on at all times.
1.2
pra« ThtUfl=aCC ?e^ur^ace shou,d grass but may also be sand, clay, snow or arti'v
safe to ni-vr>? 6 on snow* Prov|ded the snow and underlying surfaces’'
case of artificial orxt^0'^ 3 *?ermanen,|y hard surface such as concrete or asphalt ,r
• g ss surfaces, they must conform to World Rugby Regulation 22.
exceed 22 metres -XmMh 1 °° me,reS in leng,h’Each 'n'g°a'
g h-Ine P’°y‘ng »ea does not exceed 70 mel res in width
27 WORLD RUGBY
Law 1 The Ground
(b)	The length and bread! h of the playing area are to be as near as possible to the dimensions
indicated All the areas are rectangular.
(c)	The distance from the goal line Io the dead ball line will preferably be not less than 10
metres.
(d)	In respect of:
(i) Matches between the senior national representative team or the next senior national
representative ream of a Union against the senior or next senior national representative
learn of another Union; and
(ii) International seven-a-side marches;
the dimensions should be as close to the maximum sizes as possible, and not less than 9^
metres in length for the field of play, 68 melres in width, and with a minimum in-goal length
of 6 metres. Unions wishing to vary minimum or maximum dimensions should apply for
dispensation to World Rugby.
(e)	The perimeter area should not be less than 5 melres where practicable.

(a) Solid Lines
The dead ball lines and louch-in-goal lines, boih of which are outside the in-goal areas;
The goal lines, which are within the in-goal areas but outside the field of play;
The 22-metre lines; which are parallel to the goal lines
The half way line which is parallel to the goal lines, and
The touchlines which are outside the field of play
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION | 28
WO»LD
RUGBY.
Law1 The Ground
(b)	Dash Lines
All lines other than solid lines are dash lines all of which are 5 metres in length
There are two sets of dash lines which are 10 metres from, and parallel to. each s^f’
half way line. These are called the 10 metre dash l.nes. The 10 metre dash lines
the dash lines which are 5 metres and 15 metres parallel to each touch line
There are two sets of dash lines which are 5 metres from, and parallel to. each touch i-
They run from the 5 metre dash lines, which are parallel to each goal line and mtersec.
22 metre lines, both 10 metre dash lines and the half way line. These are called rhe 5*
dash I nes
There are two sets of dash lines which are 15 metres from, and parallel to. each touch
These dash Ines run from the 5 metre dash lines which are parallel to each goal line. <
intersect both 22 metre lines, both 10 metre dash lines and the half way line. Theses*
called the 15 metre dash lines
There are six dash I nes 5 metres from, and parallel to. each goal line Two dash lines ='|
positioned 5 metres and 15 metres from each touch line A further two dash lines a*e
posnoned m front of each goal post so that there is 5 metres between these dash ire.
(c)	Centre
There is one line 05 metre long that intersects the centre of the half way line
1 .A DIMENSIONS FOR GOAL POSTS AND CROSSBAR
(a)	The distance between t he two goal posts is 5 6 met res
(b)	The crossbar is placed between the two goal posts so that its top edge is 3.0 metresIq
the ground.
(c)	The minimum height of the goal posts is 3.^ metres.
(d)	When padding is attached to the goal posts the distance from the goal line to the ere*
edge of the padding must not exceed 300mm.
!9 WORLD RUGBY
Goal posts
FLAG POSTS
) There are 1 flag posts with flags, each with a minimum height of 1.2 metres above the
ground
) Flag posts must be positioned at the intersection of touchm-goal lines and the goal lines
and at the intersection of the touch m-goal lines and the dead ball lines These eight flag
posts are outside the in-goal area and do not form part of the playing area.
Flag posts must be positioned in line with the 22-metre lines and the half way line, 2 metres
outside the touchlines and within the playing enclosure
OBJECTIONS TO THE GROUND
3 If either team has objections about the ground or the way it is marked out they must tell the
referee before the match starts.
-) The referee will attempt to resolve the issues but must not start a match if any part of the
ground is considered to be dangerous.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
2015
30
(b) Dash Lines
All I nes other than sol d lines are dash lines all of which are 5 metres in length
There are two sets of dash lines which are 10 metres from, and parallel to. each side c- ’
half way line. These are called the 10 metre dash lines. The 10 metre dash lines intent
the dash I nes which are 5 metres and 15 metres parallel to each touch line
There are two sets of dash lines whch are 5 metres from, and parallel to. each touch I
They run from the 5 metre dash lines, which are parallel to each goal line and intersec:
22 metre I nes, both 10 metre dash lines and the half way line. These are called the 5
dash lines.
There are two sets of dash lines which are 15 metres from, and parallel to. each touch r
These dash I nes run from the 5 metre dash lines which are parallel to each goal line, ar
intersect both 22 metre lines, both 10 metre dash lines and the half way line. These an
called the 15 metre dash lines.
There are six dash lines 5 metres from, and parallel to. each goal line Two dash Ines an
positioned 5 metres and 15 metres from each touch line A further two dash I nes are
positioned in front of each goal post so that there is 5 metres between these dash lines
(c) Centre
There is one line 0 5 metre long that intersects the centre of the half way line
1 .A DIMENSIONS FOR GOAL POSTS AND CROSSBAR
(a)	The d stance between the two goal posts is 5.6 metres.
(b)	The crossbar is placed between the two goal posts so that its top edge is 3.0 metres by
the ground
(c)	The minimum height of the goal posts is 3A metres.
(d)	When paddmg is attached to the goal posts the distance from the goal line to the exter
edge of the padding must not exceed 300mm
29 WORLD RUGBY
cAW 1 The Ground
RUGBY
Goalposts
.5; FLAG POSTS ]
((a) There are 1 flag posts with flags, each with a minimum height of 1 2 metres above the
ground
((b) Flag posts must be positioned at the intersection of touch in goal lines and the goal lines
and al the intersection of the louch m-goal lines and the dead ball lines. These eight flag
posts are outside the in-goal area and do not form part of the playing area.
((c) Flag posts must be positioned in line with the 22-metre lines and the half way line. 2 metres
outside the touchlines and within the playing enclosure
,6» OBJECTIONS TO THE GROUND
((a) If either team has objections about the ground or the way it is marked out they must tell the
referee before the match starts.
((b) The referee will attempt to resolve the issues but must nor start a match if any part of the
ground is considered to be dangerous.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION IWOtj 30
2.1___SHAPE
The ba'I must be oval and made of four panels
2.2	DIMENSIONS
Length in line
Circumference (end to end)
Circumference (in width)
280 300 millimetres
7^0-770 millimetres
580 620 millimetres
2.3	MATERIALS
Leather or suitable synthetic material. It may be treated to make it waler resistant c~:
eas:er to grip.
31 WORLD RUGBY
xSW 2 The Ball
WORLD
RUGBY.
A WEIGHT
910 - <<60 grams
.5 AIR PRESSURE AT THE START OF PLAY
65.71-68.75 kilopascals, or 0 67-0.70 kilograms per square centimetre, or 9.5-10.0 lbs per
square inch
.6 SPARE BALLS
Spare Da!Is may be available during a match, but a team must not gain or attempt to gain
an unfair advantage by using them or changing them.
.77 SMALLER BALLS
Balls of different sizes may be used for matches between young players.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
2015 I
32
Law 3 Number of Players-TheTeam
DEFINITIONS
A Team. A team consists of fifteen players who start the rrffedgplus any
authorised replacements and/or substitutes.
Replacement. A player who replaces an Injured team-maS.
Substitute. A player who replaces a team-mate for tactlc«e®>ns.
3.1	MAXIMUM NUMBER OF PLAYERS ON THE PLAYING AREA
Maximum. each team must have no more than fifteen players on the playing area d’-
play
3.2	TEAM WITH MORE THAN THE PERMint
Objection: at any time before or during a match a team may make an objection to
referee about the number of p'ayers in their opponents' team As soon as the referee r
that a team has too many players, the referee must order the captain of that team tc
reduce the number appropriately. The score at the time of the objection remains un«
Sanction. Pena ty at the p'ace where rhe match would restart
3.3	WHEN THERE ARE FEWER THAN FIFTEEN PLAYERS_________
A Un on may authorise matches to be played with fewer than fifteen players in each r-
When that happens, all the Laws of the Game apply except that each team must ha.^ -
least five players in the scrum at all times.
Exception: matches between teams of Seven-a-side are an exception These matche
covered by the Sevenaside Variations to the Laws of the Game.
53 WORLD RUGBY
JHW 3 Number of Players-The Team
WORLD
RUGBY.
PLAYERS NOMINATED AS SUBSTITUTES
(a)	For international matches a Union may nominate up to eight replacements/substitutes
(b)	For other matches, the Union or match organiser with jurisdiction over the match decides
how many replacements/substitutes may be nominated to a maximum of eight
(c)	A Union (or Unions, where a match or competition is played between teams from two or
more Unions) may decide how many replacements/substitutes may be nominated to a
maximum of eight.
(d)	A team can substitute up to two front row players (subject to Law 3.5 (f) and (g) when it
may be three) and up to five other players.
(e)	Substitutions may only be made when the ball is dead and with the permission of the
referee
.5 THE FRONT ROW - REPLACEMENTS AND SUBSTITUTIONS
(a)	The table below indicates the numbers of suitably trained and experienced players available
for the front row when nominating different numbers of players
	
Number of players	Minimum number of suitably trained and experienced players
15 or less	Three players who can play in the front row
16.17 or 18	Four players who can play in the front row
19.20.21 or 22	Frve players who can play in the front row
23	Six players who can play in the front row
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
2015 1
Law 3 Number of Players -The Team
(b)	Prior to the match teams must advise the referee of their front row players and
replacements Each player in the front row and any potential replacements must be ±-
trained and experienced.
(c)	The replacement of a front row player must come from the suitably trained and
experienced players who started the match or from nominated replacements. A
other than a nom naled front row player is permitted to play in the front row only w—
uncontested scrums are be.ng played and there are no available front row repldcerne"
(a)	A suitably wa ned and expenenced front row forward may start the match in another
position.
(e) When 19.20.21 or 22 players are nom nated in a team there must be five players *' -
play in the front row to ensure that
• on the first occasion that a rep’acement hooker is required the team can continue-
safely with contested scrums
• on the first occasion that a replacement prop is required the ream can continue to p -
safely with contested scrums.
(0 The Union having jurisdiction over a match or a match organiser may decide that whe"
players are nom nated in a team there must be sufficient front row players to play at'
tight head prop and loose-head prop who are suitably trained and experienced to er
that on the first occason that a replacement is required in each front row position, the •
can continue to play safely with contested scrums.
(g)	If a Union or match organ,set decides to have 25 players nominated for a ream there •
be sufficient front row players to play at hooker, tight-head prop and loose head prep •
are suitably trained and experienced to ensure that on the first occasion that a replace'
is required in each front row position, the team can continue to play safely with con* er
scrums If a team is only able to nominate two suitably trained front row players then r
22 players may be nominated for the match
(h)	If. because of a sending off or injury, a team cannot provide enough suitably trainedr:
raw players, the match continues with uncontested scrums.
35 WORLD RUGBY
^aw3
Number of Players - The Team
WORLD
RUGBY.
(i)	If a team does not have suitably trained front row players prior to the march so that
contested scrums cannot take place the referee will order uncontested scrums The referee
will report the matter to the match organiser.
(i) A match organiser may decide within the competition rules that a match may or may not
commence if suitably trained and experienced front row players are nor available so that
contested scrums cannot take place.
(k) Wnen 23 players are nominated for a match, or if the Union having jurisdiction over a
match or a march organiser decides that where uncontested scrums are ordered as a result
of there being no suitably named and experienced front row replacement for any reason
the ream concerned shall not be entitled to replace the player whose departure caused
uncontested scrums.
(I) If the referee orders uncontested scrums during a march - as a result of a team not having
suitably trained and experienced front row players in compliance with Law or reasons of
safely the referee will report the matter to the match organiser
< (m) If there are no further front row replacements available when a front row player leaves the
field of play, is sent off or temporarily suspended, uncontested scrums will be ordered. It is
not the responsibility of the referee to determine the suitability of trained front row
replacements nor their availability, as this is a team responsibility
i (n) After a front row player leaves the field of play or is sent off. or during the time for which a
front row player is temporarily suspended, the referee, upon awarding the next scrum, will
ask the player’s captain whether or not the team has another player on the play.ng area
who is suitably trained and experienced to play in the front row. If not. the captain chooses
another player on the playing area who then must leave the playing area to be replaced by
a suitably trained and experienced front row player from the team's replacements. The
captain may do this when the scrum is ordered or after another player has been tried in the
front row.
C(o) When a period of temporary suspension ends and a front row player returns to the playing
area, the replacement front row player leaves the field of p>ay and the nominated player
who left the playing area for the period of suspension may resume playing in the match.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
2015 1
36
Law 3 Number of Players - The Team
(p)	If a front row player is temporarily suspended and the replacement player is sent oft"-
temporarily suspended front row player may return to the playing area after the pe«>- '
suspension but the player who was nominated to leave the p'aying area must not re'-
the play.ng area for the duration of the match except as a substitute or replacement
another p’ayer
(q)	If a front row player is temporanly replaced and the replacement player is sent off.
temporarily replaced player may return to the field of play at the time the next scrum *
awarded after the sending off providing it is within 15 minutes (actual time) from the >
the player left the playing area The captain of that team chooses another player on r
play-ng area who then must leave the playing area.
(r)	A previously substituted front row player is permitted to replace a front row player -
injured, temporarily suspended, or sent off if the replacement will ensure that scrums
rema n contested
(s)	If uncontested scrums have been ordered and there is an injury to a front row player ~
requires that player to be rep'aced and there is a front row replacement available, Ihe-*
front row replacement must be used rather than orher players.
0) If uncontested scrums nave been ordered and a team has utilised all its permitted
replacements/ substitutes and a front row p'ayer is then injured, that player cannot be
replaced.
3.6	SENT OFF FOR FOUL PI________
A player sent off for foul play must not be replaced or substituted. For an exception tz ~
Law. refer to Law 3.5
3.7	PERMANENT REPLACEMENT
A player may be permanently replaced if injured. If the player is permanently rep'ace- '
player must not return and play in that match. The replacement of the injured p'ayec
be made when the ball is dead and with the permission of the referee
37 WORLD RUGBY
Law 3
Number of Players - The Team
vl)
WORLD
RUGBY.
FOR permai
was
(a)	When a national representative team is playing in a match, a player may be replaced only
when, m the opinion of a doctor, the player is so injured that if would be unwise for that
player to continue playing in that match
(b)	In other matches, where a Un:on has given explicit permission, an injured player may be
replaced on the advice of a medica.ly trained person. If none is present, that player may be
replaced if the referee agrees
If the referee decides - with or without the advice of a doctor or other medically qualified
person - that a player is so injured that the player should slop playing, the referee may
order that player to leave the playing area. The referee may also order an injured player to
leave the field in order to be medically examined.

(a)	When a player has a blood injury, which has uncontrolled active bleeding (a blood injury),
that player may be temporarily replaced. The injured player must return to play as soon as
the bleeding has been controlled and/or covered. If the player who has been temporarily
replaced is not available to return to the field of play within 15 minutes (actual time) of
leaving the playing area, the replacement becomes permanent and the replaced player
must not return to the field of play.
(b)	In international matches, the Match Day Doctor shall decide whether an injury Is a blood
injury necessitating a temporary replacement.
(c)	Minor cuts and abrasions nor constituting a blood injury should be treated during stoppages
in play for other reasons.
(d)	If the temporary replacement is injured, that player may also be replaced.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
2015
38
RUGBY.
Law 3 Number of Players - The Team
(e)	If the temporary replacement is sent off for foul play, the replaced player may nor reftf" ~
the field of play.
(f)	If the temporary replacement is cautioned and temporarily suspended, the replaced ?'<•
may not return to the field of play until after the period of suspension
LAW AMENDMENT TRIAL
Temporary replacement - head injury assessment
In all situations, if there are any indications of concussion a player MUST be remc
from play. This is known as Recognise and Remove.
For tournaments and matches approved by the Union or Rugby body having
jurisdiction and with trained healthcare professionals, a temporary replacement
may be used for a player who has a head injury where the diagnosis Is unclear.
(a)	When a player leaves the field to have a head injury assessment that player may be
temporarily rep’aceo If the player who has been temporarily replaced does not return to ~
field of play within fen minutes (actual time) of leaving rhe playing area, the replaceme*
becomes permanent and the replaced player must not return to the field of play. s
(b)	The player must be presented to a match official on the touchline within the prescribed
time period.
(c)	If a head injury assessment starts within ten minutes of half time, the player must retu^
play immediately after half time or the replacement becomes permanent.
(d)	A player who temporarily replaces a player who is being assessed at the pitch side for he ?.
injury must not take penalty kicks at goal or conversion kicks.
(e)	If the temporary replacement is injured, that player may also be replaced
(f)	If the temporary replacement is sent off for foul play, the replaced player may not retun' ‘
the field of play.
(g)	If the temporary replacement is cautioned and temporarily suspended, the replaced p’3 •
may not return to the field of play until after the period of suspension.
59 WORLD RUGBY
Law 3 Number of Players - The Team
-i IsHSMIly i IfeiL. Li -■_
WORLD
RUGBY.
3.11	PLAYER WISHING TO REJOIN THE MATCH
(a)	A player who has a blood injury which has uncontrolled active bleeding must leave the
playing area The player must not return until the bleeding is controlled and rhe wound has
been covered
(b)	A player who leaves a match because of injury or any other reason must not rejoin the
march until the referee permits the player to return The referee must not let a player rejoin
a match until the ball is dead.
(c)	if a player rejo ns or a repiacement/substitute joins rhe match without the referee’s
permission, and the referee believes the player did so to help that player’s team or obstruct
the opposing team, rhe referee penalises the player for misconduct.
Sanction: A penalty kick is awarded at the place where play would restart
3.12	SUBSTITUTED PLAYERS REJOINING THE MATCH
If a player is substituted, that player may only return to play when replacing a player with a
blood injury or for an injured front row player in accordance with Law 3.5
A Union may implement rolling substitutions at defined levels of the Game within its
jurisdiction. The number of substitutions must not exceed twelve. The administration and
rules relating to rolling substitutions are the responsibility of the Union having jurisdiction.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
2015
DEFINITIONS
Players’ clothing is anything players wear.
A player wears a jersey, shorts and underwear, socks and bd«s. £
Detailed information relating to the permitted specificatiortBfflKlothlng and
studs maybe found in World Rugby Specifications (RegulatiW®.
Q.1 ADDITIONAL ITEMS OF CLOTHING
(a)	A player may wear supports made of elasticated or compressible materials which must be
washable.
(b)	A player may wear sh n guards which conform with World Rugby Specifications (Regu'a* -
12).
(c)	A p’ayer may wear ank'e supports worn under socks, not extending higher than one th • Z '
rhe length of rhe shin and. if ngid, from material other than metal.
(d)	A player may wear mins (fingerless gloves) which must conform ro World Rugby
Specifications (Regular.on 12).
(e)	A player may wear shoulder pads which must bear the World Rugby Approval Mark
(Regulation 12).
(f)	A p'ayer may wear a mouth guard or dental protector
(g)	A player may wear headgear which must bear the World Rugby Approval Mark (Regu'a-
12).
(n) A player may wear bandages and/or dressings to cover or protect any injury.
(i) A player may wear thin tape or other similar material as support and/or to prevent injury
01 WORLD RUGBY
Law 4 Players’ Clothing
WORLD
RUGBY.
A.2 SPECIAL ADDITIONAL ITEMS FOR WOMEN
In addition to the previously permitted clothing women may wear
(a)	Chest pads, which must bear the World Rugby Approval Mark (Regulation 12).
(b)	Cotton blend long tights, with single inside leg seam under their shorts & socks.
(c)	Headscarves, providing they do not cause a danger to the wearer or other players and do
not contravene Regulation 12
*<.3 STUDS
(a)	Studs of players’ boots must conform with World Rugby Specifications (Regulation 12).
(b)	Moulded rubber multi-studded soles are acceptable provided they have no sharp edges or
ridges.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
woaio
RUGBY.
Law 4 Players’ Clothing
W BANNED ITEMS OF CLOTHING
(a)	A player must not wear any item that is contaminated by blood
(b)	A player must not wear any item that is sharp or abrasive
(c)	A player must not wear any items containing buckles, dips, rings, hinges, zippers, screws.
bolts or rig d material or projection nor otherwise permitted under this Law.
(d)	A payer must not wear jewellery such as rings or earrings
(e)	A player must not wear gloves.
(f)	A player must not wear shorts with padding sewn into them.
(g)	A player must not wear any other item which does not conform wit h World Rugby
Specifications for such clothing (Regulation 12).
(h)	A player must not wear any item that is normally permitted by Law. but. in the referee’s
opinion that is liable to cause injury to a player
(i)	A p ayer must not wear communication devices within that player’s clothing or attaches •:
the body.
(j)	A player must not wear any additional item of clothing that does not conform to World
Rugby Regulation 12.
hi WORLD RUGBY
Law 4 Players’ Clothing
WORLD
RUGBY.
^.5 INSPECTION OF PLAYERS’ CLOTHING
(a)	The referee or the touch judges appointed by or under the authority of the match organiser
must inspect the players' clothing and sluds for conformity to this Law.
(b)	The referee has power to decide at any time, before or during the match, that part of a
player's clothing is dangerous or illegal. If the referee decides that clothing is dangerous or
illegal the referee must order the player to remove it The player must nor take part in the
match until the items of clothing are removed
(c)	If. at an inspection before the match, the referee or a touch judge tells a player that an item
banned under this Lav/ is being worn, and the player is subsequently found to be wearing
that item on the playing area, that player is sent off for misconduct
Sanction* A penalty kick is awarded at the place where play is restarted.
^.6 WEARING OTHER CLOTHING
The referee must not allow any player to leave the playing area to change items of clothing.
unless these are bloodstained.
For more information on provisions relating to players's dress, see World Rugby Regulation
12 at
http://playerwelfare.worldrugby.org/reg12
LAWS OF THE GA>
•15
woaio
RUGBY. J
Law 5 Time
5.1	DURATION OF A MATCH
A march lasts no longer than 80 minutes plus time lost, extra t.me and any special
cond lions. A match is d.v.ded into two halves each of not more than forty minutes p
time.
5.2	HALF-TIME_____________
After half time the teams change ends. There is an interval of not more than 15 mne-Tc*-
Tne length of the interval is decided by the match organiser, the Union or the recogn -
body which has jurisdiction over the game During the interval tne teams, the referee & -
the touch judges may leave the play.ng enclosure
3 TIMEKEEPING	__________________
The referee keeps the time but may delegate the duty to either or both the touch judges
and/or the official time keeper, m which case the referee signals to them any stoppage -
time or time lost. In matches without an official lime-keeper, if the referee is in doubr as '
the correct time the referee consults either or both the touch judges and may consu'r c~
but only if the touch judges cannot help
5.A TIME LOST
_______________________
Time lost may be due to the following.
(a)	Injury. The referee may stop play for not more than one minute so that an injured pla/-'
can be treated, or for any other perm.tied delay.
The referee may allow play to continue while a medically trained person treats an m,u'e-r
player in the playing area or the player may go to the touchline for treatment
WORLD RUGBY
ILaw5 Time
vl)
WOfclD
RUGBY.
If a player is seriously injured and needs lo be removed from the field of play, lhe referee
has lhe discretion to allow the necessary time to have the injured player removed from the
field-of-play
(b)	Replacing players* clothing. When lhe ball is dead, lhe referee allows lime for a player to
replace or repair a badly torn jersey, shorts or boots Time is allowed for a player to re-lie a
boot-lace
(c)	Replacement and subst itution of players. Time is allowed when a player is replaced or
substituted
(d)	Referee consulting with assistant referee(s) or other officials. Time is allowed for
consultations between referee and assistant referees or other officials.
5>.5 MAKING UP FOR TIME LOST
Any playing time lost is made up in lhe same half of lhe match.
5..6 PLAYING EXTRA TIME
A match may last more than eighty minutes if lhe Match Organiser has authorised the
playing of extra lime in a drawn match in a knock-out competition
IONS
(a)	In international matches, play always lasts eighty minutes plus lost lime
(b)	In non-international matches a Union may decide lhe length of a match.
(c)	If the Union does not decide, the teams agree on the length of a match If they cannot
agree, the referee decides.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
r 2015 I
Law 5 Time
RUGBY.
(d)	The referee has the power io end the match at any time, if the referee believes that pte,
shou’d not continue because it wou'd be dangerous
(e)	If time expires and the ball is not dead, or an awarded scrum or lineout has not been
comp'eted. the referee allows play to continue until the next time that the ball becomes
dead The ba I becomes dead when the referee would have awarded a scrum, lineout, ar
option to the non infringing team, drop out or after a conversion o: successful pena ry i
at goal If a scrum has to be reset, the scrum has nor been completed if t.me exp res ar-:
mark, free kick or penalty kick is then awarded, the referee allows play to continue
(f)	if time e«p res after a try has been scored the referee allows time f - r tconversion km-
be taken
(g)	When weather conditions are exceptionally hor and/or humid, the referee. at his d.scrc' -
w.l be permitted to a'low one water break in each half. This water t _ • should be no ton
than one m:nu’e Time lost should be added on at the end of each half The water brea«
should normally be taken after a score or when the ball is out of play neat the half way I-
l<7 WORLD RUGBY
i Law 6 Match Officials
■DEFINITIONS
EEvery match is under the control of Match Officials who consist of the referee
eand two touch judges ox assistant referees. Additional persons, as authorised by
rthe match (n^MHKinclude the reserve referee and/or reserve assistant
■referee, an the referee in making decisions by using technological
cdevices, match doctor, the team doctors, the non-playing
rmembers the ball persons.
M touch jud^^^^^^^Bainted by a match organiser or a team involved in a
match signalling. touch, touch In-goal and the success or
otherwise^"
Mn assistarij^HS^^^Kfeappointed by a match organiser and Is responsible for
saignallmg. the success or otherwise of kicks at goal and
irndicating'^^H^^^M&tant referee will also provide assistance to the referee
Inn the per^foj the referee's duties as directed by the referee
66.A Rt
'.AFCH
&.A.1 APPOINTING THE REFEREE
The referee is appointed by the match organiser. If no referee has been appointed the two
teams may agree upon a referee. If they cannot agree, the home team appoints a referee
S.A.2 REPLACING THE REFEREE
If the referee is unable to complete the match, the referee s replacement is appointed
according to the instructions of the match organiser If the match organiser has given no
instructions, the referee appoints the replacement. If the referee cannot do so. the home
ream appoints a replacement.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
2015
6.A.3 DUTIES OF THE REFEREE BEFORE THE MAT
(a)	Toss. The referee organises rhe toss One of rhe captains tosses a com and the othe*
captain calls to see who wins the toss. The winner of the toss decides whether to L<< - '
to choose an end. If the winner of the loss decides to choose an end. the opponents **
lock off and vce versa.
DW/NG THE MATCH

6.A.A THE DUTIES OF THE REFEREE IN THE PLA'i
(a) The referee is the sole judge of fact and of Law during a match The referee must app
fairly a’l the Laws of the Game in every match.
(b)	The referee keeps the time.
(c)	The referee keeps the score
^9 WORLD RUGBY
!Law6
Match Officials
WORLD
l RUGBY.
to.A.5 ENTERING OR LEAVING THE PLAYING AREA
(a) Authorised medically trained persons may enter the playing area during the match to
attend to injured players They must only enter the playing area if it is safe to do so.
(b)	Persons carry.ng water for the p'ayers may only enter the playing area during a stoppage in
play for an injury to a player.
(c)	A perse > carrying h < - ng tee may enter the field of play after a team has indicated that
they intend to kick at-.c j1 after that team has been awarded a penalty kick or scored a try
(d)	The referee g.ves permission to the players to leave the playing area
(e)	The referee g.-.-es per n.,: s.on to the replacements or substitutes to enter the playing area.
(f)	The coaches may entei the playing area at half-time to attend to their teams.
6..A.6 REFEREE ALTERING A DECISION______________
The referee may alter a decision when a touch judge has raised the flag to signal touch.
The referee may alter a decision when an assistant referee has raised the flag to signal
touch or an ad of foul play
6...A.7 REFEREE CONSULTING WITH OTHERS
(a) The referee may consult with assistant referees about matters relating to their duties, the
Law relating to foul play or timekeeping and may request assistance related to other
aspects of the referee's duties including the adjudication of offside.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
2015
50
LAW AMENDMENT TRIAL
(b) A match organiser may appoint an official known as a Television Match Official (TMO)»'
uses technological devices to clarify situations relating to;
(i) Wtien there is doubt as to whether a ball has been grounded -n in goal for a score a -
touchdown.
(i.) Where there is doubt as to whether a kick at goal has been s_ c Jul.
(m) Where there is doubt as to whether players were in touch or I -yen in goal before
grounding the bal in in goal or the ball has been made dead
(w) Where match officials bel eve an offence or infringement rr :• occurred inrr«= ‘
of play lead ng to a try or preventing a try.
(v) Reviewing situations where match officials believe foul play may have occurred.
(vi) Clarifying sanctions required for acts of foul play.
) Any of the match officials including the TMO may recommend a review by the TMO The
reviews wfl take place in accordance with the TMO protocol in place at the time when .
oe avalable at laws.worldnjgby.org.
(a) A match organiser may appo nt a timekeeper who will signify the end of each halt
(e)	The referee must not consult with any other persons
51 WORLD RUGBY
ILaw6 Match Officials
WORLD
RUGBY.
66.A.8 THE REFEREE’S WHISTLE
(a) The referee must carry a whistle and blow the whistle to indicate the beginning and end of
each half of the match
(b) The referee has the power to blow the whistle and stop play at any time.
(c)	The referee must blow the whistle to indicate a score, or a touch down.
(d)	The referee must blow the whistle to stop play because of an infringement or for an offence
of foul play When the referee cautions or sends off the offender, the referee must whistle a
second rime when the penalty kick or penalty try is awarded.
(e)	The referee must blow the whistle when the ball has gone out of play, or when it has
become unpayable. or v.nen a penalty is awarded.
(0 The referee must blow rhe whistle when it would be dangerous to let play continue or wher
it is probable that a player has been seriously injured.
to.A.9 THE REFEREE AND INJURY
If the referee stops play because a player has been injured, and there has been no
infringement and the ball has not been made dead, play restarts with a scrum The team
last in possession throws in the ball If neither team was in possession, the attacking team
throws in the ball
66.A.10 THE BALL TOUCHING THE REFEREE
(a) If the ball or the ball carrier touches the referee and neither team gams an advantage, play
continues. If either team gains an advantage in the field of play, the referee orders a scrum
and the team that last played the ball has the throw-in.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
2015
52
¥.■0810
I RUGBY.
(b) If e’.ther team gams an advantage m in-goal, if the ball is in possession of an attacking
the referee awards a try where the contact took place
(c)	if either team gams an advantage in m-goal. if the ball is in possession of a defendng:
the referee awards a touch down where the contact took place.
6.A.11 THE BALL IN IN-GOAL TOUCHED BY NO
Tne referee judges what would have happened next and awards a try or a touch de.- - ■.
the p’ace where the ball was touched
AFTER THE MATCH
6.A.12SC0RE
The referee communicates the score to the teams and to the match organiser.
6.A.13 PLAYER SENT-OFF___________________
If a p'ayer is senr off the referee gives the march organiser a written report on the fa-:
infringement as soon as possible.
6 B TOUCH JUDGES AND ASSISTANT REFEREES
BEFORE THE MATCH
6.B.1 APPOINTING TOUCH JUDGES AND ASSI

There are two touch judges or two assistant referees for every match. Unless they he
been appo nted by or under the authority of the match organiser, each ream pco.'&
touch judge.
53 WORLD RUGBY
Law 6 Match Officials
11)
WORLD
RUGBY.
GA TOUCH JUDGE OR ASSISTANT REFEREE
The match organiser may nominate a person to act as a replacement for the referee, the
touch judges or assistant referees. This person is called the reserve touch judge or reserve
assistant referee and stands in the perimeter area.
6.B.3 CONTROL OF TOUCH JUDGES AND ASSISTANT REFEREES
The referee has control over both touch judges or assistant referees The referee may fell
them what their dut ■are, and may overrule their decisions. If a touch judge is
unsatisfactory the r. fcree may ask that the touch judge be replaced. If the referee believes
a touch j~dge is gu , cf misconduct, the referee has power to send the touch judge off anc
make a report to the march organiser.
DUk
DGES OR ASSISTANT REFEREES SHOULD BE
(a) There is one touch judge or assistant referee on each side of the ground. The touch judge or
assistant referee rema ns in touch except when judging a kick at goal. When judging a kick
at goal the touch judges or assistant referees stand in in-goal behind the goal posts
(b) An assistant referee may enter the playing area when reporting an offence of dangerous
play or misconduct to the referee The assistant referee may do inis only at the next
stoppage in play
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
2015
LaW 6 Match Officials
$ I
world
RUGBY.

(aj) Each touch judge or assistant referee carries a flag or someth.ng similar with which tos.;
decisions.
(bo) Signalling result of kick at goal. When a
conversion kick or a penalty kick at goal is
being taken, the touch judges or assistant
referees must he'p the referee by signalling
the result of the kick. One touch judge or
assistant referee stands at or behind each
goal post If the ba'I goes over the crossbar
and between the posts, the touch judges or
assistant referees ra^se the flags to indicate
a goal.
((c) Signalling touch. When the ba'I or the ball
earner has gone into touch, the touch judge
or assistant referee must ho'd up the flag
The touch judge or assistant referee must
stand at the place of the throw-in and point
to the team entitled to throw in. The touch
judge or assistant referee must also signal
when the ball or the ball carrier has gone
into touch-mgoal
(d)	When to lower the flag. When the ball is thrown in, the touch judge or assistant referee
must lower the flag, with the following exceptions:
Exception 1: When the player throwing in puts any part of either foot in the field of play.
the touch judge or assistant referee keeps the flag up.
Exception 2: When the team not entitled to throw in has done so, the touch judge or
assistant referee keeps the flag up.
Exception 3: When, at a quick throw-in, the
ball that went into toucn is replaced by
another bc'i. or after it went into touch or it
has been touched by anyone except the
player who takes the throw-in, the touch
judge or assistant referee keeps the flag up.
(e)	It is for the referee, and not the touch judge
or assistant referee, to decide whether or
nor the ba'I was thrown in from the correct
place.
(f)	Signalling foul play. An assistant referee
signals that foul play or misconduct has
been seen by holding the flag horizontally
and pointing infield at right angles to the
touchline
Signalling foul play
---------------------r.-----—______~ ' *3
A match organiser may give authority to the assistant referee to signal for foul play If an
assistant referee signals foul play, the assistant referee must stay in touch and continue to
carry out all the other duties until the next stoppage in play. Ar the invitation of the referee
the assistant referee may then enter the playing area to report the offence to the referee.
The referee may then rake whatever action is needed. Any sanction awarded will be in
accordance with Law 10 - Foul Play.
Signalling touch and
team to throw in
VWORLD RUGBY
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 56
WOULD
RUGBY.
Law O Match Officials
■F
AFTER THE MATCH
6.8.7 PLAYER SENT-OFF
If a p ayer has been sent-off following an assistant referee's signal and report to the rra-
the assistant referee submits a written report about the incident to the referee as soar 4
possible after the match and provides it to the match organiser
6.C ADDITIONAL PERSONS
L 6.C.1 RESERVE TOUCH JUDGE OR ASSIS'
When a reserve Touch judge or assistant referee is appointed, the referee's authority ■
regard ng replacements and substitutions may be delegated to me reserve touch p:*-
resene ass-stant referee
The match doctor and ’he non-playing members of the team may enter the playrg -
authorised by the referee

In the case of injury, these persons may enter the playing area while play continues.
provided they have perm.ssion from the referee. Otherwise, they enter only when the :
dead
57 WORLD RUGBY
During the match
AMethod of playing the match
Laaw 7
Laaw 8
Laaw 9
Laaw 10
Laaw 11
Laaw 12
Mode of Play
Advantage
Method of Scoring
Foul Play
Offside and Onside in General Play
Knock-on or Throw forward
WORLD
RUGBY,
PLAYING A MATCH
A match is started by a kick-off
After the kickoff. any player who is onside may take the ball and run with it.
Any player may throw it or kick it.
Any player may g.ve the ba'I to another player.
Any player may tackle, ho'd or push an opponent holding the ba
Any player may fall on the ball
Any player may take part in a scrum, ruck maul or lineout
Any player may ground the ball in in-goal
A ball earner may hand-off an opponent.
Whatever a player does must be in accordance with the Laws of the Game.
59 WORLD RUGBY
Law 8 Advantage
RUGBY
DEFINITli
The Law of advaf
to make play mol
encouraged to pl
the result of anti
advantage, the r<
E
tedence over most other Laws and its purpose is
idth fewer stoppages for infringements. Players are
le despite Infringements by their opponents. When
^one team is that their opposing team may gain an
^Whistle immediately for the Infringement.
(a)	The referee is so e judge of whether or not a team has gained an advantage The referee
has wide d screnon when making decisions.
(b)	Advantage can be e tner territorial or tactical.
(c)	Territorial advantage means a gam in ground.
(d)	Tactical advantage means freedom for the non-offending team to play the ball as they wish.
8.2	WHEN ADVANTAGE DOES NOT ARISE
The advantage must be dear and real A mere opportunity to gain advantage is not enough.
If the non-offending team does not gain an advantage, the referee blows the whistle and
brings play back to the place of infringement.
8.3	WHEN THE ADVANTAGE LAW IS NOT APPLIED
(a)	Referee contact. Advantage must not be applied when the ball, or a player carrying if.
touches the referee
(b)	Ball out of tunnel. Advantage must not be applied when the ball comes out of either end
of the tunnel at a scrum without having been played.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
r 2015 1
60
(c)	Wheeled scrum. Advantage must not be applied when the scrum is wheeled throjgr - .
than 90 degrees (so that the middle line has passed beyond a position parallel to rhe
touchlne)
(d)	Collapsed scrum. Advantage must not be applied when a Krum collapses. Therefere-
must bow the whistle immediately
(e)	Player lifted in the air. Advantage must nor be applied whc; i a player in a scrum is i4* *-'
the a.r or forced upwards out of the scrum The referee mu^t blow the whistle immed
(f)	After the ball has been made dead. Advantage cannot b 'ay-d after the ball has
made dead.
8A IMMEDIATE WHISTLE WHEN NO ADVA]
The referee blows the whistle having determined that an ad vantage cannot be ga.re-: ’
rhe non-offending team.
(a)	When there is more than one infringement by the same team
• If advantage cannot be played or does not accrue to the second offence, the referee
applies the appropriate sanction to the offence which is most advantageous to the nc
offending team.
• If either sanction is for foul play the referee applies the appropriate sanction to the cr
which is most advantageous to the non-offend'ng team The referee may also rempc
suspend, or order off. the offending player
(b)	If advantage is be.ng played following an infringement by one ream and then the o"-:
team commit an infringement, the referee blows the whistle and applies the sanctons
associated with the first infnngement. If either infringement is for foul play, the referee
applies the appropriate sanction for that offence. The referee may also temporarily
suspend, or order off. the offending player.
61 WORLD RUGBY
Law 9 Method of Scoring
<3. A SCORING
5 points
Try. When an attacking yer is first to ground the
ball in the opponents' ■ • ;oal. a try is scored.
Penalty Try. If ■> player .’d probably have scored a
try but for foul play by an opponent, a penalty try is
awarded between the goal posts.
5 points
Conversion Goal. When a player scores a try it gives
the player’s team the right to attempt to score a goal
by taking a k ck at goal; this also applies to a penalty
try. This kick is a conversion kick a conversion kick can
be a place kick or a drop kick.
2 points
Penalty Goal A player scores a penalty goal by
kicking a goal from a penalty kick.
3 points
Dropped Goal. A player scores a dropped goal by
kicking a goal from a drop kick in general play. The
team awarded a free kick cannot score a dropped goal
until the ball next becomes dead, or until an opponent
has played or touched if. or has tackled the ball earner.
This restriction applies also to a scrum taken instead
of a free kick.
3 points
RUGBY.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
2015 |
62
Hi WtXID
I , p j RUGBY. J
Law 9 Method of Scorin
9. A.2 KICK AT GOAL - SPECIAL CIRCUMSTANJ
(a)	If after the ball is kicked, it touches the ground or any team mate of the kicker, a g<k
be scored.
(b)	If the ball has crossed the crossbar a goal is scored, even if the v. nd blows it back rv: -
field of play
(c)	If an opponent commits an offence as the kick at goal is being taken, but nevenhless
kick is successful, advantage is played and the score stands
(o) Any player who touches the ball in an attempt to prevent a pen jlty goal being score: -
illegally touching the ball.
Sanction: Penalty kick
. 9.B CONVERSION KICK
9.B.1 TAKING A CONVERSION KICK
(a)	The kicker must use the ball that was m play unless it is defective.
(b)	The kick is taken on a line through the place where the try was scored in the field cf: -
(c)	A ream mate may hold rhe ball for the kicker to kick.
(a) The kicker may place the ball directly on the ground or on sand, sawdust or a kick'.:
approved by the Union. No other form of assistance may be used.
65 WORLD RUGBY
Law 9 Method of Scoring
WORLD
RUGBY.
(e)	The kicker must take the kick within one minute and thirty seconds (ninety seconds) from
the lime a try has been awarded The player must take the kick within one minute and thirty
seconds even if the ball rolls over and has to be placed again.
Sanction: The ' , o, • . .ed if the kicker does nor take the kick within the lime allowed.
9>.B.2 THE KICKER'S TEAM
(a) All the kicker's team, except the placer, must be behind the ball when it is kicked.
(b) Neither the kicker nor a placer must do anything to mislead their opponents info charging
too soon.
(c)	If the ball falls over before the kicker begins the approach to kick, the referee permits the
kicker to replace it without excessive delay. While the ball is replaced, the opponents must
stay behind their goal line
If the ball falls over after the kicker begins the approach to kick, the kicker may then kick or
attempt a dropped goal.
if the ball falls over and rolls away from the line through the p’ace where the try was scored.
and the kicker then kicks the ball over the crossbar, a goal is scored
If the ball falls over and rolls info touch after the kicker begins the approach to kick, the kick
is disallowed.
Sanction: (a)-(c) If the kicker's team infringes, the kick is disallowed.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
2015

WORLD
RUGBY.
Law 9 Method of Scoring
LaWlO Foul Play
9.B.3 THE OPPOSING TEAM___________
(a) All players of the opposing team must retire to their goal line and must not overstep th?
line until the kicker begins the approach to kick or starts to kick. When the kicker doesr;.
they may charge or jump to prevent a goal but must not be physically supported byorre
players m these actions.
(b) When the ba'i fa'ls over after the kicker began the approach to ki • the opponents
continue to charge.
(c) A defending team must nor shout during a kick at goal
Sanction: (a)-(c) If the opposing team infringes but the kick Is s . ful. the goal star?.
If the kick is unsuccessful, the kicker may take another kick and th op cosing team isrc
allowed to charge.
When another kick isal'o*ed. the kicker may repeat all the preparations. The kicker maj
change the type of kick.
(a) Charging or pushing. When a player and an opponent are running for the ball, either
player must not charge or push the other except shoulder-to-shoulder.
Sanction: Penalty ktci
(b) Running in front of a ball carrier. A player must not intentionally move or stand in front of
a team-mate carrying the ball thereby preventing opponents from tackling the current ball
carrier or rhe opportunity to tackle potential ball carriers when they gain possession
Sanction: Penalty kick
(c) Blocking the tackler. A player must not intentionally move or stand in a position that
prevents an opponent from tackling a ball carrier.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(d) Blocking the ball. A player must not intentionally move or stand m a position that prevents
an opponent from playing the ball.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(e) Ball carrier running into team-mate. A player carrying the ball must not intentionally run
into team-mates in front of that player.
Sanction: Penalty kick
65 WORLD RUGBY
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
2015
66
10.2 UNFAIRPLAY
(a)	Intentionally Offending. A player must not intentionally infringe any Law of the Game. .
play unfairly. The player who intentionally offends must be either admonished, or cautxx«
that a send off wi I resu't if the offence or a similar offence is committed, or sent off.
Sanction: Penalty kick
A penalty try must be awarded if the offence prevents a try that would probably otherw se
have been scored A player who prevents a try being scored thro; igh foul play must etfhe
cautioned and temporarily suspended or sent off
(o)	Time-wasting. A player must not intentionally waste time
Sanction: Free vc<
(c) Throwing into touch. A player must not intentionally knock, place, push or throw the be1
with hrs arm or hand into touch, touchingoal. or over the dead ball line.
Sanction: Penalty kick on rhe 15-melre line if the offence is betv. ?n t he 15-metre tne :
the touchline, or. at the place of infringement if the offence occured elsewhere in rhe f - '
of play. or. 5 metres from the goal line and at least 15 metres from the touchline if the
infringement occured in in-goal
A pena ry try must be awarded if the offence prevents a try that would probably other* *
have been scored.
10.3 REPEATED INFRINGEMENTS _________
(a)	Repeatedly offending. A player must not repeatedly infringe any Law Repeated
infringement is a matter of fact. The question of whether or not the player intended to
infringe is irrelevant
Sanction: Penalty kick
A player pena'ised for repealed infringements must be cautioned and temporarily
suspended
67 WORLD RUGBY
Law 1O Foul Play
WORLD
RUGBY.
(b)	Repeated infringements by the team. When different players of the same team
repeatedly commit the same offence, the referee must decide whether or not this amounts
to repeated infringement. If it does, the referee gives a general warning to the team and if
they then repeat the offence, the referee cautions and temporarily suspends the guilty
player(s). If a player of that same ream then repeats the offence the referee sends off the
guilty player(s).
Sanction: Penalh
A penally try must be awarded if the offence prevents a try that would probably otherwise
have been scored
(c)	Repeated infringements: • ndard applied by referee. When the referee decides how
many offences constitute repeated mfnngement. the referee must always apply a strict
standard in representative and senior matches. When a player offends three times the
referee must caution that player.
The referee may relax this standard in junior or minor matches, where infringements ma;
be the result of poor knowledge of the Laws or lack of skill.
(a)	Punching or striking. A player must not strike an opponent with the fist or arm. including
the elbow, shoulder, head or knee(s).
Sanction: Penalty kick
(b)	Stamping or trampling. A player must not stamp or trample on an opponent
Sanction: Penalty kick
(c)	Kicking. A player must not kick an opponent
Sanction: Penalty kick
(d)	Tripping. A player must not trip an opponent with the leg or foot
Sanction: Penalty kick
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
2015
68
(e) Dangerous tackling. A player must not tackle an opponent early, late or dangerously
Sanction: Penalty kick
A player must not tackle (or try to tackle) an opponent above the line of the shoulders e.r
if the tackle starts below the line of the shoulders. A tackle around the opponent's neck cr
head is dangerous play
Sanction: Pena'iy kick
A 'stiff-arm tackle' is dangerous play. A player makes a stiff-arm rack I • when using a stff-
arm to stnke an opponent.
Sanction: Penalty kick
Playing a player without the ball is dangerous play
Sanction: Penalty kick
A p'ayer must not tackle an opponent whose feet are off the ground.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(f)	Playing an opponent without the ball. Except in a scrum, ruck or maul, a player who 6
not in possession of the ball must not ho'd, push or obstruct an opponent not carrying r-
ball.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(g)	Dangerous charging. A player must not charge or knock down an opponent carrying ra
ball without trying to grasp that player
Sanction: Penalty kick
(h)	A player must not charge into a ruck or maul. Charging includes any contact made w-.thcw
use of the arms, or without grasping a player
(i)	Tackling the jumper In the air. A player must not tackle nor tap, push or pull the foot u
feet of an opponent jumping for the ball in a lineout or in open play
Sanction: Penalty luck
(j)	Lifting a player from the ground and dropping or driving that player into the ground wf. "
that player's feet are still off the ground such that the player's head and/or upper body
come into contact with the ground is dangerous play.
Sanction: Penalty kick
. 69 WORLD RUGBY
1O Foul Play
____ -SStx________
WORLD
RUGBY.
Dangerous play in a scrum, ruck or maul. The front row of a scrum must not rush aga nst
its opponents
Sanction: Penally kick
Front row players must not intentionally lift opponents off their feet or force them upwards
out of the scrum.
Sanction: Penail
Players must not charge into a ruck or maul without binding onto a player in the ruck or
maul.
Sanction: Penaii,
Players must not intentionally collapse a scrum, ruck or maul
Sanction: Pena i
Retaliation. A player must not retaliate Even if an opponent is infringing the Laws, a playe
must not do anything that is dangerous to the opponent.
Sanction: Penally L .
Acts contrary to good sportsmanship. A player must not do anyih ng that is against the
spirit of good sportsmanship in the playing enclosure.
Sanction: Penalty kick
Misconduct while the ball is out of play. A player, must nor. while the ball is out of p'ay
commit any misconduct, or obstruct or in any way interfere with an opponent
Sanction: Penally kick
The sanction is the same as for sections 10 k (a)-(m) except that rhe penally kick is
awarded at the place where play would restart. If that place is on the touchline or with n 15
metres of it, the mark for the penalty kick is on the 15-metre line, in Ime with that place
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
If p'ay would restart ar a 5-metre scrum, tne mark for the penally kick is at that place of re
scrum.
If p'ay would restart w.th a drop out, the non-offending team may choose to take the
penally kick anywhere on the 22-metre line.
If a penalty kick is awarded but the offending team is guilty of firmer misconduct before
the kick is taken, the referee cautions or orders off the guilty pi er, . j advances the max
for the penalty kick 10 metres. This covers both the original off id the misconduct
If a pena’ty kick is awarded to a team but a player of that team .s guilty of further
misconduct before the kick is taken, the referee will caution or • ?nd off the guilty p*a>er.
declare the kick disallowed, and award a penalty kick to the oppos ng ream.
If an offence is committed outside rhe playing area while the b il is still in play, and if that
offence is not covered by any other part of this law, the penal! \ kick is awarded on the 15-
metre line, in line with where the offence happened.
(o) Late-charging the kicker. A player must not intentionally charge or obstruct an oppor.?**
who has just kicked the ball
Sanction; The non-offending team may choose to take the penair y kick either at the p’ac-
of infringement, where the ball lands or or where it was next played
Place of infringement. If rhe infringement rakes place in the kicker's in-goal, the pena
kick is taken 5 metres from the goal line in line with rhe place of infringement but at least
15 metres from the touchline.
The nonoffendmg team may also choose to take the penalty where the ball lands or is n£ •
played before landing and ar least 15 metres from the touchline.
Where the ball lands. If the ball lands in touch, the mark for the optional pena'tykck -s
the 15-metre line, in line with where it went into touch. If the ball lands, or is next played
before landing, within 15 metres of the touchline, the mark is on the 15 metre I ne oppz
where the ball landed or was played
71 WORLD RUGBY
Law1O Foul Play
WORLD
RUGBY.
Late charging the kicker
If the ball lands in the in-goal, in touch-in-goal, or on or over the dead ball line the mark for
the optional penalty kick is 5 metres from the goal line, in line with the place where the ball
crossed the goal line and at least 15 metres from the touchline
If the ball hits a goal post or crossbar, the optional penalty kick is awarded where the ball
lands on the ground.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
2015
(p)	Hying Wedge and Cavalry Charge. A team must not use the Fly»ng Wedge or the C<=. 2 .
Charge'.
Sanction: Penalty kick at the p’ace of the original infringement
‘Flying Wedge’ The type of attack known as a Flying Wedge’ usually happens near the
goal line, when the attacking team is awarded a penalty kick or free kick.
The kicker tap-kicks the ba’l and starts the attack, either by driving towards the goal linea
by passing to a team male who drives forward. Immediately, team mates bind on earn <. >
of the ball carrier in a wedge formation. Often one or more of these team mates is m frcr'
of the bail carrier. A ‘Flying Wedge is illegal.
Sanction: Pena’ty kick at the place of the original intrmgem.
'Cavalry Charge’ The type of attack known as as a ‘Cavairy Charge usually happens r- -
the goal hne. when the attacking team is awarded a penally k or free kick. Either asrg -
player stands some d.stance behind rhe kicker, or attacking players form a line across rhe
field some distance behind the kicker
These attacking players are usually a metre or two apart. At a signal from the kicker, they
charge forward. When they ger near, the kicker tap kicks the ba/ and passes to a player-
had started some distance behind the kicker
Sanction: Penalty kick at the place of infringement
(q)	Advantage may be p'ayed for ads of foul play, but if the offence prevents a probab'e try =
penalty try must be awarded
(r)	For an offence reported by an assistant referee a penalty kick may be awarded where r e
offence occurred, or advantage may be played.
(s)	All players must respect the authority of the referee. They must nor dispute the referee s
decisions. They must stop playing ar once when the referee blows the whistle except a* e
kck-off or at a penalty kick following admonishment, temporary suspension, or seno-c~
Sanction: Penalty kick
73 WORLD RUGBY
Law1O Foul Play


WORLD
RUGBY.
(a)	Any player who infringes any pari of the Foul Play Law must be admonished, or cautioned
and temporarily suspended for a period of ten minutes’ playing time, or sent-off
(b)	A player who has been ca j’ oned and temporarily suspended who then commits a second
cautionable offence with n the Foul Play Law must be sent-off.
10.6 YELLOW AND RED CARDS
(a)	When a player has been cautioned and temporarily suspended m an International match
rhe referee will show that p:ayer a yellow card
(b)	When a player has been sent off in an International match, the referee will show that player
a red card.
(c)	For other matches the Match Organiser or Union having jurisdiction over the match may
decide upon the use of yellow and red cards
A player who is sent-off takes no further part in the match
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
7k
1
Law 11
Offside and Onside in General Play
DEFINITIONS
At the start of a game all players are onside. As the mal
find themselves In an offside position. Such players arc
until they become onside again.
In general play a player is offside if the player is In fron
carrying the ball, or In front of a team-mate who last pl
Offside means that a player Is temporarily out of the g.
to be penalised if they take part in the game.
In general play, a player can be put onside either by an
an action of an opponent. However, the offside player
offside player interferes with play; or moves forward, t
move 10 metres away from the place where the ball la

11.1	OFFSIDE IN GENERAL PLAY
(a)	A p'ayer who is m an offside position is liable to sanction only if the player does one of three
things:
•Interferes w.th play or.
• Moves forward, towards the ball or
• Fails to comply with the 10-Metre Law (Law 11 .^)
A player who is in an offside position is not automatically penalised.
A player who receives an un.ntentional throw forward is not offside
A player can be offside in the m-goal.
(b)	Offside and interfering with play. A player who is offside must not take part in the ga~-
This means the player must not play the ball or obstruct an opponent.
(c)	Offside and moving forward. When a team male of an offside player has kicked ahead
the offside player must not move towards opponents who are waiting to play the ball, cr
move towards the place where the ball lands, until the player has been put onside.
Sanction: When a player is penalised for being offside in general play, the opposing tea--
chooses either a penalty kick ar the place of infringement or a scrum at the place where “•
offending team last played the ball If it was last played in that team's in-goal, the scrum s
formed 5 metres from the goal line in line with where it was played.
75 WORLD RUGBY
Law 11
Offside and Onside in General Play
WORLD
RUGBY.

11.2	BEING PUT ONSIDE BY THE ACTION OF A TEAM-MATE
In general play, there are three ways by which an offside player can be put onside by actions
of that player or of team mates:
(a)	Action by the player. -n the offside player runs behind the team mate who last kicked.
touched or earned the bJi. the player is put onside
(b)	Action by the ball carrier . . hen a team-mate carrying the ball runs in front of the offside
player, that player is put ons de.
(c)	Action by the kicker or other onside player. When the kicker, or team-mate who was
level with or behind rhe kicker when (or after) the ball was kicked, runs in front of the offside
player, the player is put onside. When running forward, the team mate may be in touch or
touch-in-goal. but that team-mate must return to the playing area to put the player onside.
Yellow team -
direction of play
Offside player
runs behind ball
carrier
Team-mate with
ball runs ahead
Team-male kicks, runs
ahead or another onside
team-male runs ahead
Player made onside by team-mate
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
76
Law 11 Offside and Onside in General Play
WOULD
RUGBY.
11.3	BEING PUT ONSIDE BY OPPONENTS
In general p'ay. there are three ways by which an offside player can be put onside by an
action of the opposing team. These three ways do not apply to a player who is offside jnor
the 10-Metrelaw.
(a)	Runs 5 metres with ball. When an opponent carrying th. jail runs 5 metres, theoffsdr
player is put onside.
(b)	Kicks or passes. When an opponent kicks or passes the b: < rhe offside player ispu?
onside
(c)	Intentionally touches ball. When an opponent intention : i:nes the ball but does re
catch it. the offside player is put onside
Blue team -
direction of play
h
Yellow team -
direction of play
Opponent runs
five metres with
ball
Opponent kicks
or passes
Opponent
Intentionally
touches ball
Player put onside by opponents
77 WORLD RUGBY
Law 11 Offside and Onside in General Play
WORLD
RUGBY.

(a) When a team-mate of an offside player has kicked ahead, the offside player is considered to
be taking part in rhe game if the player is in front of an imaginary line across the field which
is 10 metres from the opponent waiting to play the ball, or from where the ball lands or may
land The offside player must immediately move behind the imaginary 10-metre line or the
kicker if this is closer than 10 metres. While moving away, the player must not obstruct an
opponent or interfere with play
Sanction: Penalty
(o) While moving av.o. the offside player cannot be put onside by any act-on of the opposing
team However, before the player has moved the full 10 metres, the player can be put
onside by any ons de team-male who runs in front of the player
(c) When a player who is offside under the 10-Metre Law charges an opponent wailing to catch
the ball, the referee blows the whistle al once and the offside player is penalised. Delay may
prove dangerous to the opponent.
Sanction: Penalty I lek
(d)	When a player who is offside under the 10-metre Law plays the ball which has been
misfielded by an opponent, the offside player is penalised
Sanction: Penalty kick
(e)	The 10-metre Law is not altered by the fact that the ball has hit a goal post or a crossbar
What matters is where the ball lands An offside player must not be in front of the imaginary
10-metre line across the field
Sanction: Penalty kick
(f)	The 10-metre Law does not apply when a player kicks the ball, and an opponent charges
down the kick, and a team-mate of the kicker who was m front of the imaginary 10-metre
line across the field then plays the ball The opponent was not waiting to play the ball' and
the team-mate is onside The 10-metre Law applies if the ball touches or is played by an
opponent but is not charged down.
Sanction: When a player is penalised for being offside in general play, the oppos-ng team
chooses either a penalty kick ar the place of infringement or a scrum at the place where the
offending team last played the ball if if was last played In that ream's in-goal, the scrum is
formed 5 metres from the goal line In line with where it was played.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
78
Law 11 Offside and Onside in General Play
__________________________ ___________
>kl)
WORLD
RUGBY.
(g)
If more than one player is offside and moving forward after a team-mate has kicked ahea^
the place of infringement is the position of the offside player closest to an opponent »•.= * '•
for the ball. or closest to where the ball lands.
11.5 BEING PUT ONSIDE UNDER THE 10-METRE LAW
(a) The offside player must retire behind the imaginary 10-metre hr . across the field.
otherwise the player is liable to be penalised
(b) Whle retiring, the player can be put onside before moving behind the imaginary 10-r-r-
line by any of the three actions of the player's team listed abo-.e in 11.2. However, tne
player cannot be put onside by any action of the opposing team.
......
11.6 ACCIDENTAL OFFSIDE_______________
(a) When an offside player cannot avoid being touched by the bali or by a team-mate cam,
it. the player is aeddettfafly offside If the player's team gams no advantage from this, p =
continues If the player's team gams an advantage, a scrum is formed with the opposing
team throwing in the ball
(b) When a p’ayer hands the ball to a team-mate in front of the first player, the receiver is
offs.oe Unless the receiver is considered to be Intentionally offside (in which case a pera'
kick is awarded), the receiver is accidentally offside and a scrum is formed with the
opposing team throwing in the ball.
11.7 OFFSIDE AFTER A KNOCK-ON__________"
When a player knocks-on and an offs de team-mate next plays the ball, the offside p
liable to sanction if playing the ball prevented an opponent from gaming an advantage
Sanction: Penalty kick
79 WORLD RUGBY
Law 11 Offside and Onside in General Play
WORLD
RUGBY.
11.8	PUTTING ONSIDE A PLAYER RETIRING DURING A RUCK, MAUL,
SCRUM OR LINEOUT
When a ruck, maui. scrum or lineout forms, a player who is offside and is retiring as required
by Law remains offside c. en when the opposing team wins possession and the ruck. maul.
scrum or lineout has ended The player is pul onside by retiring behind the applicable
offside line. No other act on of the offside player and no action of that player s team mates
can pur the offside- player cnside.
If the player remains of, ie the player can be pul onside only by the action of the opposing
team. There are two such actions
Opponent runs 5 metres with ball. When an opponent carrying the ball has run 5 metres.
the offside player p jt ons.de. An offside player is not put onside when an opponent
passes the ball. Even if the opponents pass the ball several times, their act.on does not put
the offside player onside
Opponent kicks. When an opponent kicks the ball, the offside player is put onside
111.9	LOITERING
A player who remains in an offside position is loitering. A loiterer who prevents the opposing
team from playing the ball as they wish is taking part in the game, and is penalised. The
referee makes sure that the loiterer does not benefit from being put onside by the opposing
team’s action.
Sanction: Penalty kick at the offending player’s offside line
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
80
WOt ID
RUGBY.
Law 12 Knock-on or Throw Forward
DEFINITION: KNOCK-ON
A knock-on occurs when a player loses possession^
or when a player hits the ball forward with the hand
the hand or arm and goes forward, and the ball touc
player before the original player can catch It.
‘Forward’ means towards the opposing team’s dead
EXCEPTION
nd it goes forwi
rhen the ball hits
und or another
Charge down. If a player charges down the ball as
Immediately after the kick. It Is not a knock-on ever
forward.
it kicks it, or
• ball may travel
81 WORLD RUGBY
Law 12 Knock-on or Throw Forward
RUGBY
Charge down

LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
82
WORLD
RUGBY. J
Law 12 Knock-on or Throw Forward
12.1	THE OUTCOME OF A KNOCK-ON OR THR(

(a)
Unintentional knock-on or throw forward. A scrum is awarded at the place of
infringement
(b)	Unintentional knock-on or throw forward at a lineout. A sciurn is awarded 15 meres
from the touchline
(c)	Knock-on or throw forward into the in-goal. If an aha • r g p >, er knocks-on or throws
forward in the Field of p'ay and the ball goes into the oppor nts > goal and if ismadedsf
there, a scrum is awarded where the knock on or throw forward r ppened.
(d)	Knock-on or throw forward inside the in-goal If a player of either team knocks-on cr ,
throws-forward Inside the in-goal, a 5-metre scrum is awarded in line with the place of 1
infringement not closer than 5 metres from the touchline
(e)	Knock-on or throw forward into touch. When the ball goes into touch from a knocx-T
ex throw forward, the non-offending team will have the option of a lineout at rhe point tie
ball crossed the touch line or a scrum at the place of the knock on or throw forward. (X a
quick throw in.
(f)	Intentional knock or throw forward. A player must not intentionally knock the bt
forward with hand or arm. nor throw forward
Sanction: Penalty kick. A penalty try must be awarded if the offence prevents a try rhr
would probably otherw.se have been scored.
83 WORLD RUGBY
during the match
i tthe field of play
iwr 13 Kick-off and Restart Kicks
w»1*< Ball on the Ground - No Tackle
w -15 Tackle: Ball Carrier Brought to Ground
■w 16 Ruck
■w 17 Maul
w 18 Mark
WORLD
RUGBY,
Law 13 Kick-off and Restart Kicks
■ 1)
WOKLO
RUGBY
DEFINITIONS
The kick-off occurs ar the start of each half of the m<
each period of extra time. Restart kicks occur after a
the beginning of
>uch down.
13.1	WHERE AND HOW THE KICK-OFF IS TAKI
(a) A team kicks off with a drop kick which must be taken at or behind the centre of the ha?
way line.
(b)	If the ball is kicked off by the wrong type of kick, or from the incorrect place, the oppor<
team has two choices:
• To have the ball kicked off again, or
• To have a scrum at the centre of the half way line and they throw in the ball
(a) At the stan of the game, the team whose captain elected to take the kick after winring nt
toss will kick off. or the opposing team if the winning capta-n elected to choose an end
(b) After rhe half time interval, the opponents of the team who kicked off at the start of the
game kick off
(c) After a score the opponents of the team who scored restart play
All the kicker’s team must be behind rhe ball when it is kicked If they are nor, a scrums
formed at the centre Their opponents throw in the ball
85 WORLD RUGBY
ILaw13 Kick-off and Restart Kicks
—___________________________________
WOtlD
RUGBY.
All the opposing team must stand on or behind the 1Ometre line If they are in front of that
line or if they charge oefore the ball is kicked, it is kicked off again
Kick-off
0.5 KICK-OFF OF 10 METRES
If the ball reaches the opponents' 10-metre line or reaches the 10-metre Lne and is b'c.’.n
back, play continues.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
86
Law 13 Kick-off and Restart Kicks
13.6	KICK-OFF OF UNDER 10 METRES BUT PLAYED BY AN OPPONENT
If the ball does not reach the opponent s 10-metre line but is first played by an opponent.
play continues.
13.7	KICK-OFF OF UNDER 10 METRES AND NOT PLAYED BY AN
.....	OPPONENT___________ ______________
If the ball does not reach the opponent s 10 metre line the oppo mg team has two chocs
• To have the ball lucked off again, or
• To have a scrum at the centre of the half-way line and they Ihrov. m the ball.
_________
13.8	BALL GOES DIRECTLY INTO TOUCH -
The ball must land in the field of play. If it is kicked directly into touch the opposing team hs
three choices:
• To have the ball kicked off again, or
• To have a scrum at the centre and they have the throw-m. or
• To accept the kick.
If they accept the kick, the lineout is on the half way line If the ball is blown behind the te'
way line and goes directly into touch, the lineout is at the place where it went into touch
13.9	BALL GOES INTO THE IN-GOAL____________
(a)	If the ball is kicked into the opponents in goal without having touched or been touched b. t
player, the opposing team has three choices:
•To ground the bailor
• To make it dead, or
•To play on.
87 WORLD RUGBY
Law 13 Kick-off and Restart Kicks
WO«ID
| RUGBY.
(o) If the opposing team grounds lhe ball, or if they make it dead, or if the ball becomes dead
by going info touch-in-goal. or on or over the dead ball line, they have two choices.
• To have a scrum formed al lhe centre, and they throw In lhe ball, or
• To have the other team kick off again.
(c) If they opt to ground the bali or make II dead, they must do so without delay. Any other
action with lhe ball by a defending player means the player has elected to play on.
(o) If the ball does not travel ten metres and ends up in the kicking ream's in goal and
• it is made dead by a defending player, or
• the ball goes into touch in goal, or
• lands on or over the dead ball line.
a 5-metre scrum is awarded and the attacking team throw in.
113:1g DROW^
(DEFINITIONS
AA drop-out is a drop kick taken by the defending team. The drop-out may be taken
aenywhere on or behind the 22-metre line.
Ak drop-out Is used io restart play after an attacking player has put or taken the ball
mnto the in-goal, without infringement, and a defending player has made the bail
I dilead there or It has gone into touch-in-goal or on or over the dead ball line.
DELAY IN DROP-OUT
The drop out must be taken without delay.
Sanction: Fr< e Kick on the 22 metre hne
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
2015
88
Law 13 Kick-off and Restart Kicks
WOULD
RUGBY
13.12	DROP-OUT INCORRECTLY TAKEN '
If the ball is kicked with the wrong type of kick, or from the wrong place, the opposing tear
hastwochoces:
• To have another drop-out, or
• To have a scrum at the centre of the 22-metre line and they throw in the ball
13.13	DROP-OUT MUST CROSS THE LINE
(a)	If the ball does not cross the 22-metre line the opposing team has two choices:
• To have another drop out, or
• To have a scrum at the centre of the 22-metre line. They throw in the ball
(b)	If the ball crosses the 22-metre line but is blown back, play continues
(c)	If the ball does not cross the 22-metre line, advantage may apply. An opponent whop
the ba’I can score a try.
13.1	A DROP-OUT GOES DIRECTLY INTO TOUCH
The ball must land in the field of play If it is kicked directly into touch, the opposing tear
has three choices:
• To have another drop-out. or
• To have a scrum at the centre of the 22-metre line, and they throw in the ball, or
• To accept the kick If they accept the kick, the throw-in is on the 22-metre line
89 WORLD RUGBY
Law 13 Kick-off and Restart Kicks
________________________ _________
WOULD
RUGBY.
13.15	DROP-OUT GOES INTO THE OPPONENTS’ IN-GOAL
(a)	If the ball is kicked into the opponents' in goal without having touched or been touched by a
player, the opposing team has three choices
•Toground the ball, or
• To make it deed, or
• To play on.
(b)	If the opposing team grounds the ball, or makes it dead, or if the ba'I becomes dead by
going into touch in goal or on or over the dead ball line, they have two choices:
• To have a scrum formed at the centre of the 22-metre line from where the kick was taken
and they throw in the ball, or
• To have the other team drop-out again.
(c)	If they opt to ground the ball or make it dead, they must do so without delay Any other
action with the ball by a defending player means the player has elected to play on
‘13.16 THE KICKER’S TEAM
(a)	All the kicker's team must be behind the ball when it is kicked. If not. a scrum is formed at
the centre of the 22-metre line. The opposing team throws in the ball.
(b)	However, if the kick is taken so quickly that players of the kicker s team who are retiring are
still in front of the ball, they will not be penalised They must not stop retiring until they have
been made onside by an action of a team male They must not take pan in the game until
they have been made onside in this way
Sanction: Scrum at the centre of the 22-metre line The opposing team throws in the ball
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
2015
90
Law 13 Kick-off and Restart Kicks
RUGBY.
13.17 THE OPPOSING TEAM________________
(a) The opposing team must not charge over the 22-metre line before the ball is kicked.
Sanction: Free K»ck at the place of infringement
(b)	If an opponent is on the wrong side of the 22-metre line and delays or obstructs the drop-
out. the player is guilty of misconduct.
Sanction: Penalty kick on the 22-metre line
91 WORLD RUGBY
Law 14 Ball on the Ground - No Tackle
______________£_____________
■
DEFINITION
This situation occurs
l ground to gather thd
I It also occurs when d
I been tackled.
The Game Is to be pH
I the ball unplayable:)
i immediately avallaH
a A player who makes
t falling down, is nega
j penalised. j
/A player who is not n
f player who goes tog

pall is available on the ground and a player goes to
>t immediately after a scrum or a ruck.
n the ground in possession of the ball and has not
wers who are on their feet. A player must not make
»wn. Unplayable means that the ball is not
tarn so that play may continue.
ayable, or who obstructs the opposing team by
lose and Spirit of the Game and must be
I
if who goes to ground while holding the ball, or a
a gathers the ball, must act immediately.
(a) A player with the ball must immediately do one of three things.
•Gel up with the ball
• Pass the ball
'• Release the ball.
Sanction: Penally kick
(b) A player who passes or releases the ball must also get up or move away from it at once.
Sanction; Penally kick
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
r 2015 1
92
■ vl)
WORLD
RUGBY
Law 14 Ball on the Ground - No Tackle
(c)	A player without the ball must not lie on, over, or near the bail to prevent opponents gtf't
possession of it.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(d)	A player on the ground must not tackle or attempt to tackle an opponent.
Sanction: Pena ry kick
1*1.2 PLAYERS ON THEIR FEET_____________
(a) Falling over the player on the ground with the ball. A per must not mtentionc'y
on or over a player with the ball who is lying on the ground
Sanction: Penalty kick
(b) Falling over players lying on the ground near the ball. A player must not mtent onafe'
on or over players lying on the ground with the ball between them or near them.
Sanction: Penalty kick
93 WORLD RUGBY
Law 15 Tackle: Ball Carrier Brought to Ground
WORLD
RUGBY.
IDEFINITTO
AA tackle occurs whe
tbrought to ground.
AAball carrier who is
pplace.
COpposition players
wwho also go to grot
COpposition players
ntacklers.
ler is held by one or more opponents and is
It a tackled player and a tackle has not taken
ball carrier and bring that player to ground, and
Las tacklers.
ball carrier and do not go to ground are not
A tackle can only fake place in the field of play
LAWS OF THE CAME RUGBY UNION
wohid
RUGBY.
Law 15 Tackle: Ball Carrier Brought to Ground
-——________________
15.2	WHEN A TACKLE CANNOT TAKE PL AC
When the ball earner is he:d by one opponent and a team mate of the ball carrier binds on to the
ball carrier, a maul has been formed and a tackle cannot take p'ace.
_____
15.3	BROUGHT TO THE GROUND DEFINED _____
(a) If the ball earner has one knee or both knees on the ground that player has been ’brougfr
to ground’
(b) If the ball carrier is sitting on the ground, or on top of another player on the ground the
carrier has been 'brought to ground’.
(a) When a player tackles an opponent and they both go to ground, the tackler must
immediately re’ease the tackled player.
Sanction; Penalty kick
(b) The tackler must immediately get up or move away from the tack led player and (rem re
ball at once
Sanction: Penalty kick
(c)	The tackler must get up before play.ng the ball and then may play the ball from any
direction
Sanction: Penalty kick
______________________
15.5	THE TACKLED PLAYER	__________________
(a) A tackled player must not lie on. over, or near the ball to prevent opponents from ga n ng
possession of it. and must try to make the ball ava table immediately so that play can cervy
Sanction: Penalty kick
(b) A tackled player must immediately pass the ball or release it That player must also get
move away from it at once
Sanction: Penalty kick
95 WORLD RUGBY
Uaw15 Tackle: Ball Carrier Brought to Ground
____ ______________-
WORLD
RUGBY.
(0 A tackled player may release the ball by putting it on the ground in any d.rection. provided
this is done immediately
Sanction: Penalty kick
(o) A tackled player may release the ball by pushing it along the ground in any d redion except
forward, provided this is done immediately
Sanction: Penalt ■.
(e)	If opposition playe -a he- ce on their feet attempt to play the ball, the tackled player must
release the ball
Sanction: Penait
Tackled player must release the ball immediately
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
RUGBY.
Law 15 Tackle: Ball Carrier Brought to Ground
(f)	It a tackled player’s momentum carries the player into the in-goal, the player can score a rt
or make a touch down.
(g)	If a player is tackled near the goal I ne. that player may immediately reach out and ground
the ball on or over the goal line to score a try or make a touch down
A player tackled near the goal line can reach out
and ground the ball to score a try
15.6	OTHER PLAYERS
(a) After a tackle. al other players must be on their feet when they play the ball Players are r
their feet if no other part of rhe.r body is supported by the ground or players on Ihegrc-
Sanction: Penalty kick
Exception: Bail goes into the in-goal. After a tackle near the goal line, if the ba'I has bee'
released and has gone into the in-goal any player, including a player on the ground, rr».
ground the ball.
97 WORLD RUGBY
I Law 15 Tackle: Ball Carrier Brought to Ground
WORLD
RUGBY.
After a tackle all of the players must be on their feet
when they play the ball
Player off his feet and playing the ball at the tackle
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
2015
98
■ *D
WORLD
RUGBY
Tackle: Ball Carrier Brought to Ground
Player off feet and playing the ball at the tackle
(b) After a tackle any p’ayers on their feet may attempt to gain possession by taking the ba-
from the ball carrier’s possession.
(c)	Players in opposition to the ball earner who remain on their feet who bring the ba'I carrier:
ground so that the player is tackled must release the ball and the ball carrier Those
may then play the ball providing they are on their feet and do so from behind the ba c:
from directly behind the tackled player or a tackler closest to those players’ goal line
Sanction: Penalty kick
(d) At a tackle or near to a tackle, other players who play the ball must do so from beh nd re
bali and from directly behind the tackled player or the tackler closest to those players goe
line.
Sanction: Penalty kick
99 WORLD RUGBY
Law 15 Tackle: Ball Carrier Brought to Ground
WORLD
RUGBY.
• (e) Any player who gams possession of I he ball at the tackle must play the ball immediately by
moving away or passing or kicking the ball.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(f)	Any player who first gains possession of the call must not go to the ground at the tackle or
near to it unless tackled by an opposition player.
Sanction: Penal! \ '>
(g)	Any player who first gums possession of the ball al the tackle or near to it may be tackled by
an opposition player pro. a ng that player does so from behind the ball and from directly
behind the tackled pla, > or the tackler closest to that player's goal line
Sanction: Penal’
(h)	After a tackle, anyr jye , ng on the ground must not prevent an opponent from getting
possession of the bail
Sanction: Penalty
(») After a tackle, any player on the ground must nor tackle an opponent or try to tackle an
opponent.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(i)	When a tackled player reaches out to ground the ball on or over the goal line to score a try.
an opponent may p jll the ball from the player's possession, but must not kick or attempt to
kick the ball
Sanction* Penalty kick

(a) No player may prevent the tackled player from passing the ball.
Sanction. Penalty kick
(o) No player may prevent the tackled player from releasing the ball and getting up or moving
away from it.
Sanction: Penalty kick
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
2015
100
RUGBY.
No player may fall on or over the p'ayers lying on the ground after a tackle with thebj]
between or near to them.
Sanction: Penalty kick
No player may fall on or over a tackled player
(d) Players on their feet must not charge or obstruct an opponent who is not near the bat
Sanction: Penalty kick
(e) Danger may arise if a tackled player fails to release the ball or move away from it
immediately, or if that player is prevented from so doing. If either of these happens the
referee awards a penalty kick immediately.
Sanction: Penalty kick
15.8	DOUBT ABOUT FAILURE TO CO!
If the ball becomes unplayable at a tackle and there is doubt about which player dd nd^
conform io Law, the referee orders a scrum immediately with the throw-in by the tear*
was moving forward prior to the stoppage or, if no team was moving forward, by the
attacking team.
101 WORLD RUGBY
[ 16.1 FORMING A RUCK
(a)	Where can a ruck take place. A ruck can take place only in the field of play
(b)	How can a ruck form. Players are on their feet. At least one p'ayer must be in physical
contact with an opponent. The ball must be on the ground If the ball is off the ground for
any reason, the ruck is not formed.
TfrOQININGARUCK
(a)	A'l players forming, jo ning or taking part in a ruck must ha. tne-t c-ads and shoulders no
lower than their hips.
Sanction: Free K»c*
(b)	A p'ayer joining a ruck must bind on a team mate or an opponent, using the whole arm. The
bind must either precede, or be simultaneous with, contact with any other part of the boo/
of the player join ng the ruck.
Sanction; Penalty kick
(c)	Racing a hand on another player in the ruck does not constitute binding
Sanction: Penalty kick
(d)	All players forming, joining or taking part in a ruck must be on their feel
Sanction: Penalty kick
16.3	RUCKING /
(a)	Players in a ruck must endeavour to slay on their feet
Sanction: Penalty kick
(b)	A player must not intentiona'iy fall or kneel in a ruck. This is dangerous play.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(c)	A player must not intentionally collapse a ruck This is dangerous play.
Sanction: Penalty kick
105 WORLD RUGBY
into a ruck.
(d)	A player must not jump on top of a ruck.
Sanction: Penally kick
(e)	Players must have I heir heads and shoulders no lower than their hips.
Sanction: Fiec
(0 A player rucking for the u must not intentionally ruck players on the ground. A player
rucking for the ball mu.: 'ry to step over players on the ground and must not intentionally
step on them A pi .yer ru king must do so near the ball
Sanction: Pena
("WM5:
(a)	Players must not return rhe I
Sanction: Fr<
(b)	Players must not handle rhe ball in a ruck except after a tackle if they are on their feet a
have their hands on the ball before the ruck is formed.
Sanction: Penally kick
(c)	Players must not pick up the ball in a ruck with their legs.
Sanction: Penally kick
(d)	Players on the ground in or near the ruck must try to move away from the bail These
players must not interfere with the ball in the ruck or as it comes out of the ruck.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(e)	A player must not fall on or over the ball as it is coming out of a ruck.
Sanction: Penally kick
(0 A player must not take any action lo make the oppos;ng team think that the ball is out of
’he ruck while It is still In the ruck
Sanction: Free Kick
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
10*4
RUGBY.
Law 16 Ruck
L 16.5 OFFSIDE AT THE RUCK
(a)	The offside line. There are two offside lines parallel to the goal lines, one for each team.
Each offside I ne runs through the hindmost fool of the hindmost player in the ruck. If the
hindmost foot of the hindmost player is on or behind the gcal line, the offside line for rhe
defending team is the goal line.
(b)	Players must either join a ruck, or retire behind the offside line immediately. If a player
laters at the side of a ruck, the player is offside
Sanction: Penalty Jock
(c)	Players joining or rejoining the ruck. A player joining a ii • n... • do so from beh.nd rne
foot of the hindmost team mate in the ruck. A player may ,n.n alongside this hindmost
player If a player joins the ruck from the opponents' side, or in front of the hindmost team
mate, the player is offside. A player may bind onto an op; non player providing the p’aytr
is not otherwise offside
Sanction: Penalty kick on the offending team's offside Im.
At a ruck or maul, the offside line runs through the
hindmost foot of the player of the same team. The player in
the yellow jersey on the right hand side is offside.
105 WORLD RUGBY
Law 16 Rue
WOUD
RUGBY.
(o) Players not joining the ruck. If a player is in front of the offside line and does nor join the
ruck, the player must retire behind the offside line at once. If a player who is behind the
offside line oversteps it and does not join the ruck the player is offside.
Sanction: Penali • :ne offending team’s offside line
16.6	SUCCESSFUL END TO A RUCK
A ruck ends succe jfully . . hen the ball leaves the ruck, or when the ball is on or over the goal
fine
16.7 UNSUCC
5FULENDTO A RUCK _________________
S
(a)	A ruck ends unsuccessfully when the ball becomes unplayable and a scrum is ordered I
The team that was mov.ng forward immediately before the ball became unplayab'e in th
ruck throws in the ball.
If neither team was moving forward, or If the referee cannot decide which team was movinw
forward before the ball became unplayable in the ruck, the team that was moving forward
before the ruck began throws in the ball.
If neither team was moving forward, then the attacking ream throws in the ball.
(o) Before the referee blows the whistle for a scrum, the referee allows a reasonable amount of
time for the ball to emerge, especially if either team is mov.ng forward. If the ruck stops
moving, or if the referee decides that the ball will probably not emerge within a reasonable
time, the referee must order a scrum.
(c)	When the ball has been clearly won by a team ar a ruck and the ball is ava table to be played
the referee will call “Use it!" after which the ball must be played within five seconds. If the
ball is not played within five seconds the referee will award a scrum and the team not in
possession of the ball at the ruck is awarded the throw-in.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
2015
DEFINITIONS
A maul begins when a player carrying the ball is held b]
and one or more of the ball carrier’s team mates bind <
therefore consists, when it begins, of at least three pla’
ball carrier and one player from each team. All the plajj
in or bound to the maul and must be on their feet and
Open play has ended.
pre opponents,
carrier. A maul
ifhelr feet; the
id must be caught
wards a goal line
Maul

107 WORLD RUGBY
Maul not formed
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 108
RUGBY.
Law 17 Maul
17.1	FORMING A MAUL
(a) Where can a maul take place. A maul can only lake place m the field of play
17.2	JOINING A MAUL
(a)	Players joining a maul must have their heads and shoulders no lower than their hips.
Sanction: Free Kick
(b)	A player must be caught in or bound to the maul and nor jusr alon :<de it
Sanction: Penalty kick
(c)	Placing a hand on another player in the maul does nor constitute b'ndmg
Sanction: Penalty kick
(d)	Keeping players on their feet. Players in a maul must endeavour to stay on the.r fee’ The
ball earner in a maul may go to ground providing the ball is available immediately and play
continues.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(e)	A player must not intentionally collapse a maul. This is dangerous play.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(f)	A player must not jump on top of a maul
Sanction: Penalty kick
17.3	OTHER MAUL OFFENCES
(a) A player must nor try to drag an opponent out of a maul
Sanction: Penalty kick
(b) A player must not take any action to make the opposing team think that the ball is out of
the maul while it is still in the maul.
Sanction: Free Kick
109 WORLD RUGBY
WO*LD
RUGBY.
(3) The offside line. There ore two offside lines parallel to the goal I nes, one for each team
Each offside line runs through the hindmost foot of the hindmost p'ayer in the maul If ’he
hindmost foot of the hindmost player is on or behind the goal line, the offsde line for the
defending team is the goal line
Co) A player must either join . maul, or retire behind the offside line immediately. If a player
toilers at the side of a maui. the player is offside
Sanction: Penalty e offending team's offside line
(t) Players joining the maul. Players joining a maul must do so from beh.nd the foot of the
hindmost team-mate in the maul The player may join alongside ths player If the player
joins the maul from the opponents’ side, or m front of the hindmost team mate, the player
is offside.
Sanction: Penalty t ck on rhe offending team's offside line
(d)	Players not joining the maul. All players in front of the offside line and v.no do nor join inc
maul, must retire behind the offside line at once A player who does not do so. is offside. If
any player who is behind the offside line oversteps it and does not join the maul, the player
is offside
Sanction: Penalty kick on the offending team's offside l.ne
(e)	Players leaving or rejoining the maul. Players who leave a maul must .mmeo afely retire
behind the offside line, otherwise, they are offside. If the player rejo ns the maui tn front of
rhe hindmost team-mate in the maul, they are offside The p'ayer may rejoin the maul
alongside the hindmost team-mate.
Sanction: Penalty kick on the offending team's offside line
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
110
(0 When p'ayers of the team who are not in possession of the ball in the maul voluntarily lea.e
the maul such that there are no players of that team left in the maul, the maul may
continue and there are two offside lines. The offside line for the team in possession runs
through the h.ndmost foot of the hindmost player in the maul and for the team not in
possession it is a line that runs through the foremost foot of the foremost player of the
team in possession at the maul.
Sanction; Penalty kick
(g)	When players of the team who are not in possession of tr -- ca" n the maul voluntarily lea.e-
the maul such that there are no players of that team left . the maul, players of that team
may rejoin the maul providing that the first player binds o . me foremost player of the tea^
in possession of the ball.
Sanction. Penalty kick
*7.5 SUCCESSFUL END TO A MAUL	_______
A maul ends successfully when.
• the ball or a player with the ball leaves the maul
• the ball is on the ground
• the ball is on or over the goal line.
17.6	UNSUCCESSFUL END TO A MAU
(a)	A maul ends unsuccessfully if it remains stationary or has slopped moving forward for
longer than 5 seconds and a scrum is ordered.
(b)	A maul ends unsuccessfully if the ball becomes unplayable or collapses (not as a resuit of
foul play) and a scrum is ordered.
Ill WORLD RUGBY
RUGBY. J
(0 Scrum following maul. The ball is thrown in by the team not in possession when the maul
began. If the referee cannot decide which team had possession, the team moving forward
before the maul stopped throws in the ball. If neither team was moving forward. the
attacking team throws in the ball.
(d)	When a maul remains stat onary or has stopped moving forward for more than 5 seconds.
but the ball is being moved and the referee can see it, a reasonable time is allowed for the
ba'I to emerge. If it does not emerge within a reasonable time, a scrum is ordered
(e)	When a maul has stoppeo moving forward it may start moving forward again provid.ng if
does so within 5 seconds tf the maul stops moving forward a second time and if the ball is
being moved and the refer •? can see it. a reasonable time is a'lowed for the ball to emerge
If it does not emerge .. rh u reasonable time, a scrum is ordered.
(0 When the ball in a maul becomes unplayable, the referee does not allow prolonged
wrestling for it. A scrum is ordered.
(g) If the ball carrier in a maul goes to ground, including being on one or both knees or s tt ng,
the referee orders a scrum unless the ball is immediately available
When the ball is available to be played the referee will call ’Use it!" after which the ball must
be p'ayed within five seconds if the ball is not played within five seconds the referee will
award a scrum and the team not in possession of the ball is awarded the throw-in.
(n) Scrum after a maul when catcher is held. If a player catches the ball direct from an
opponent’s kick, except from a kick-off or a drop out, and the player is immediately he'd by
an opponent, a maul may form. Then if the maul remains stationary, stops moving forward
for longer than 5 seconds, or if the ball becomes unplayable, and a scrum is ordered, the
team of the ball catcher throws in the ball.
'Direct from an opponent’s kick' means the ball did not touch another player or the ground
before the player caught it
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
112
WOULD
RUGBY
Law 18 Mark
DEFINITIONS
To make a mark, a player must be on or behind that pl
player with one foot on the 22-metre line or behind 1|
22’. The player must make a clean catch direct from q
same time shout "Mark". A mark cannot be made fro j
except for a drop-out.
A kick is awarded for a mark. The place for the kick is 1
A player may make a mark even though the ball toucj
before being caught.
A player from the defending team may make a mark]
frnetre line. A
ired to be‘in the
nt’s kick and at the
Ff. or a restart kick
Ehe mark.
st or crossbar
113 WORLD RUGBY
Liaw18 Marl
WORLD
RUGBY.
The referee immediately b'ows the whistle and awards a kick to the player who made the
mark.
The kick is awarded at rr ejce of the mark. If the mark is made in the in-goal. tne kick is
awarded 5 metres from the goal line in line with where the mark was made
The kick is taken by the player who made the mark. If that player cannot take the kick within
one minute, a scrum is formed at the place of the mark with the ball thrown in by the
player's team. If the mark is in the in-goal, the scrum is 5 metres from tne goal line, on a line
through the mark
188.5	HOWTHE KICK IS TAKEN
The provisions of Law 21 Free Kicks • apply to a kick awarded after a mark.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
11A
(a) The team of the player who made the mark may choose to take a scrum.
(o) Where the scrum is. If the mark is in the field of play, the crum is at the p’aceof themar-
but at least 5 metres from the touchline. If the mark is ingoal. me scrum is 5 metres from
the goal Ime on a line through the mark, and at least 5 metres from the touchline.
(c)	Who throws In. The team of the player who made then <th .-.sin the ball
18.7	PENALTY KICK AWARDED	__________
(a) An opponent, whether onside or offside, must not charge j pla-, er who has made a mark
after the referee has blown the whistle
Sanction: Penalty kick
(b)	Where the penalty kick Is taken. If the infringing player r. on; de. the penalty kick is fate-
at the place of the infringement. If the Infringing player is offside, the penalty kick is taken a
the place of the offside line (Law 11 offside and onside in General Play.)
(c)	The penalty kick. Any player from the non offending team may take the penalty kick.
115 WORLD RUGBY
I i I
During the match
sistarts
19	Touch and Lineout
20	Scrum
21	Penalty and Free Kicks
WORLD
RUGBY.
WORLD
RUGBY.
Law 19 Touch and Lineoi
Jft
DEFINITIONS
‘Kicked directly into touch’ means that the ball wasj
landing on the playing area, and without touching a
‘The 22’ is the area between the goal line and the 2j
metre line but excluding the goal line.
The line of touch is an Imaginary line In the field oft
touchline through the place where the ball is throw?
The ball is in touch when It is not being carried by a |
touchline or anything or anyone on or beyond the
The ball is in touch when a player is carrying It and?tl
touches the touchline or the ground beyond the tou
ball carrier (or the ball) touched or crossed the toud
touch.
touch without
e referee.

icluding the 22-
igles to the
touches the
11
er (or the ball)
i/place where the
>re it went into


The ball is in touch if a player catches the ball and thaf-player has a foot on the
touchline or the ground beyond the touchline. If a player ha%one foot In the field
of play and one foot In touch and holds the ball, the ball is iixfouch.
If the ball crosses the touchline or touch-in-goal line, and is caught by a player who
has both feet in the playing area, the ball Is not In touch or touch-ln-goal. Such a
player may knock the ball Into the playing area.
If a player jumps and catches the ball, both feet must land in the playing area
otherwise the ball is in touch or touch-in-goal.
A player in touch may kick or knock the ball, but not hold It, provided it has not
crossed the plane of the touchline. The plane of the touchline Is the vertical space
rising immediately above the touchline.

117 WORLD RUGBY
19 Touch and Lineout
WO»LO
RUGBY.
W-1 THRO’
.COGAIN IN GROUND
I*) Outside a team's 22, a team member kicks directly into touch. E*cept for a penally
kick, when a player anywhe n the field of play who is outside the 22 kicks directly into
•ouch, there is no gain n grc u nd The throw-in is taken either at the place opposite where
•he player kicked the ba’l. o' the place where It went into touch, whichever is nearer that
p’ayer'sgoal line
(-) When a team cause . :hel :l to be put into their own 22. Wnen a defend ng player
plays the ball from outs de the 22 and ii goes into that player's 22 or in goal area without
touching an opposition play er and then that player or another player from that team kicks
•he ball directly into touch before it touches an opposition player, or a tackle takes p’ace or a
ruck or maul is formed, there is no gain in ground This applies when a defend ng player
moves back behind the 22 metre line to take a quick throw-in and then the bail is kicked
d rectly into touch.
(c)	if a player with one or bot h feet inside the 2 2 metre line, picks up the bail which was
stationary outside the 22 metre line, and kicks it directly into touch, then the player has
taken the ball back inside the 2 2-metre line, so there is no gam in ground
(d)	Defending team takes ball into their own 22 at a scrum or lineout. When a defending
team throws the ball into a scrum or lineout outside that team's 22 and the ba.l then
crosses into the team's 22 without touching an opposition player and then a player from
•he defending team kicks the ball directly into touch before it touches an opposmon player.
or a tackle takes place or a ruck or maul is formed, there is no gain in ground
CAIN IN GROUND
(e)	if a player with one or both feet inside the 22 metre line, picks up the ball which was in
motion outside the 22 metre line and kicks it directly into touch from w.thm the 22 metre
area, the throw-in is where the ball went into touch.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
F 2015 1
118
No gain in ground
(f) Player takes ball into their own 22. When a defending player plays the ball from ou*s~
the 22 and it goes into that player’s 22 or in goal area and it touches an opposition plays
or a tackle takes place or a ruck or maul is formed and then the ball is kicked by a player
that team directly into touch, the throw-in is where the ball went into touch.
(g)	Ball put into a player’s 22 by the opposition. When the ball is put into a team’s 22
opposition, without having touched (or been touched by) a player of the defending te^=
before crossing the 22 and the ball is then kicked into touch by the defending team, it
throw-in is where the ball went into touch.
and Lineout
WORLD
RUGBY.
(h)	Kicks indirectly into touch. When a player anywhere in the playing area Leks indirectly
into touch so that the ball bounces in the field of play the throw-in is taken where the ball
went into touch.
When a player anywhere in the playing area kicks the ball so that it touches or is touched /
an opposition player and then goes indirectly into touch so that the ba'I bounces in the ie.
of play the throw-in is taken where the ball went into touch
When a player anywhere in the playing area kicks the ball so that it touches or is touched b/
an opposition player and then goes directly into touch the throw-in is ta».en in line wit
where the opposition player touched the ball or where the ball crossed the touchl ne i t o
is nearer the opposition player's goal line
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
120
RUGBY.
f Law 19 Touch and Lineout
Goal line
Free kkk taken Inside
Throw-in here
Half way line
Free kick taken outside 22
Throw-in here
22m line
Touch & throw-in
121 WORLD RUGBY
I Law 19 Touch and Lineout
WO«ID
rugby.
FPENALTY KICK
(■) Penalty kick. When a p . er kicks to touch from a penalty kick anywhere in the p'ay ng
area, the throw in r, taken •••/here the ball went into touch
FF REE KICK
(.') Outside the kicker’s 22.no gain in ground, when a free kick awarded outside rhe 22
goes directly into touch, rhe throw-in is in line with where the ball was kicked, or where it
went into touch, whichever is nearer the kicker's goal line.
W Inside the kicker's 22 or in-goal, gain in ground. When a free kick is awarded m the 22 or
in-goal and the kick goes directly into touch, the throw-in is where the ball went into touch
(a) A player may take a quick throw-in without waiting for a lineout to form.
Co) For a quick throw in. the player may be anywhere outside the field of p’ay between the p ace
where the ball would be thrown in from a formed lineout and the player s goal line.
(c) A player must not lake a quick throw in after the lineout has formed If the player does, the
qu ck throw-in is disallowed. The same team throws in at the lineout
(d)	For a quick throw-in. the player must use the ball that went into touch A qua throw-in is
not permitted if another person has touched the ball apart from the player throwing it in
and an opponent who carried if into touch The same team throws into the lineout.
(e)	An incorrect quick throw-in occurs when-
• The ball is thrown towards the opponents goal line, or
• The ball is thrown in ahead of the line of touch, or
• The ball is thrown in on or behind the goal line, or
• Tha ball touches the ground or a player before reaching the 5 metre line, or
• The thrower steps into the field-of-play when throwing the ball.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
122
Law 19 Touch and Lineoul
The opposing team’s choices are to elect to throw in at either
• a lineoul where the quick throw was attempted, or
• a scrum on the 15 metre I ne at that place
If they. too. throw in the ball incorrectly at the lineout, a < c urn is formed on the 15 metre
line. The team that first threw in the ball throws in the bo 'I at the scrum
(f)	At a quick throw-in a p’ayer
may throw the ball in stra gnr
>ngthe line of touch or
towards that player s goal
line.
(g)	At a quick throw-in. a p'aye*
may come to the line of
touch and leave without
being penalised.
(h)	At a quick throw-in. a piajtc
must nor prevent the ba"
being thrown in 5 metres
Sanction: Free Kick on 15-
metre Ime
(i)	If a player carrying the ba" 6
forced into touch, that p'j,er
must release the ba'I to an
opposition player so that
there can be a quick rhroA-r.
Sanction*. Penalty Lek on IS
metre line
123 WORLD RUGBY
On all other occasion .-, t throw-in is taken where the ball went into touch.
’*9A WHO THRO
(a)	The throw-in is taker, o opponent of the player who last held or touched the bail before
it went into touch. V. hen irete is doubt, the attacking team takes the throw-in
Exception: When a team takes a penalty kick, and the ball is kicked into touch, the throw-in
is taken by a player of the team that took the penalty kick. This appl es whether the ball was
kicked directly or ind redly into touch
(o) When the ball goes nto touch from a knock-on. the non-offending team will be offered tn,
cho.ce of a lineout ar the point the ball crossed the touch line, <y a scrum at the p’ace of the
knock-on The non-offending team may exercise this option by taking a quick throw-in.
1’19-5 PLAYER WITH FOOT IN TOUCH
(a)	If a player with one or both feet on or beyond the touch-line (or touch-in-goal I ne). picks up
the ball, which was stationary within the playing area, that player has p eked up the ball in
the playing area and thereby that player has taken the ball into touch (or touch-in-goal)
(o) If a player with one or both feet on or beyond the touch-line (or touch-in-goal I ne). P*C^P
tne ball, which was in motion within the playing area, that player is deemed to ha.e p.ck
up the ball in touch (or touch-in-goal).
119.6	HOW THE THROW-IN IS TAKEN
The player taking the throw-in must stand at the correct place. The player must not step
into the field of play when the ball is thrown. The ball must be thrown stra.ght. so that it
travels at least 5 metres along the line of touch before it first touches the ground or touches
or is touched by a player.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
2015 I
Law 19 Touch and Uneoi
How the throw-in takes place
19.7	INCORRECT THROW-IN
(a) If the throw-in at a lineout is incorrect, the opposing team has the choice of thro.vng n a i
lineout or a scrum on the 15-metre line. If they choose the throw in to the lineout and <t a
again incorrect, a scrum is formed The team that took the first throw-in throws in rhebal
(b)	The throw-in at the lineout must be taken without delay and without pretending io ttro*
Sanction: Free K ck on the 15-metre line
(c)	A player must not intentionally or repeatedly throw the ball in not straight
Sanction: Pena'ty kick on the 15-metre line
125 WORLD RUGBY
WORLD
RUGBY.
DIEFINITIO
Thne purpose of th
hros gone into tou
Unneout players. 3
maakea lineout.
leecetver. The rec
Players pass or kn
receiver but each t
PL'layers taking p
tabling part in the I
oppponent, the two p
'nneout players.
ALII other pla
at.t least 10 metres
neearer, until the Un
1!l5-metre line. The i 5-metre line Is 15 metres infield and parallel with the
toouchline.
restart play, quickly, safely and fairly, after the ball
.w-in between two lines of players.
ers are the players who form the two lines that
yer In position to catch the ball when lineout
ack from the lineout. Any player may be the
ye only one receiver at a lineout.
ut known as participating players. Players
le player who throws-in and an immediate
ting to receive the ball from the lineout and the
blayers who are not taking part in the lineout must be
e line of touch, on or behind their goal line if that is
am the lineout is on the 15-metre line on the line of touch.
119.8	FORMING A LINEOUT
(a) Minimum. At least two players from each team must form a l.neout.
Sanction: Free Kick on the 15-metre line
(b)	Maximum, The team throwing in the ball decides the maximum number of players in the
lineout
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
126
Law 19 Touch and Lineout
■ w
WORLD
RUGBY. J
(c)	The opposing learn may have fewer lineout players but they must not have more.
Sanction: Free Kick on the 15-metre line
(d)	When the ball Is in touch, every player who approaches the line of touch is presumed lode
so to form a lineout. Players who approach the line of touch must do so without delay
Players of either team must not leave the lineout once they have taken up a position m tne
lineout until the lineout has ended.
Sanction: Free Kick on the 15 metre line
(e)	If the team throwing in the ball put fewer than the usual numb r of players in the I neour,
their opponents must be given a reasonable time to rr eve enough players out of the Ineoj
to satisfy this Law.
Sanction: Free K ck on the 15-metrc- line
(f)	These players must leave the lineout without delay. The. must move to the offside Lne. 10
metres behind the line of touch. If the lineout ends before the/ reach this line, they may
rejoin play.
Sanction: Free Kick on the 15-metre I ne
(g)	Failure to form a lineout. A team must not voluntarily fail to iorm a lineout
Sanction: Free Kick on the 15-metre I ne
(h)	Where the lineout players must stand. The front of the lineout is not less than 5 metres
from the touchline The back of rhe lineout is not more than 15 metres from the touch* re
All lineout players must stand between these two points.
Sanction: Hee Kick on the 15-metre line
(i)	Where the receiver must stand. If a team uses a receiver, then that player, must be
positioned ar least 2m back from team mates in the lineout, and between the 5m and 15"
lines, until the lineout begins.
Once ’he lineout has commenced, the receiver may move into the lineout and may perfar-
all actions available to players m the lineout and is liable to related sanctions
Sanction: Free fcek on the 15 metre line along the tine of touch
127 WORLD RUGBY
LSW19 Touch and Lineout
RUGBY.
The lineout
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
Law 19 Touch and Lineout
■ tl)
WORLD
RUGBY.
(l)	Player between touch and 5 metres. The team not throwing in must have a player
standing between the touchline and the 5 metre line on that team's side of the line of
touch when the lineout is formed. That player must stand 2 metres from the line of tout
and 2 metres from the 5-metre line.
Sanction: Fiee Kick on the 15-metre I ne
(k) Participating players in a I neout may change places before the ball is thrown.
(I) Two single straight lines. The lineout players of both teams f<m two single paral'el Ines
each at right angles to the touchline
Sanction: Free K Ck on the 15-metre i ne
(m)	Opposing p’ayers forming a lineout must keep a clear <<? be ween their inside shou'oers
This space is determined when players are in an upri£ s’ance.
Sanction: Free Kick on rhe 15 mere line
(n)	Metre gap. Each line of players must be half a metre c;i their sideof the line of touch
Sanction: Free Kick on the 15-metre I ne
(o)	The line of touch must not be within 5 metres of the goal line.
(p)	After the lineout has formed, bur before the ball has been thrown in, a player must not toa
push, charge into, or obstruct an opponent.
Sanction: Penalty kick on the 15-metre line
129 WORLD RUGBY
wo«ld
RUGBY.
LLaw 19 Touch and Lineout
'ING A LINEOUT
(a)	Lineout begins. Fhe lineout begins when the ball leaves the hands of the p’ayer throwing it
in.
Co) Lineout ends. The imeout ends when the ball or a player carrying it leaves the lineout
This includes the following;
• When the ball is throknocked or kicked out of the Imeout, the I neouf ends
• When rhe ball or apv, ' carrying the ball moves into the area between the 5-metre Ine
and the touchline, the I neout ends.
• When a lineout player h ands the ball to a player who is peeing off. the imeout ends.
• When the ball is thrown oeyond the 15-metre line, or when a player takes or puts it
beyond that line, rhe neout ends
• When a ruck or maul develops in a Imeout. and all the feet of a l the players in the ruck oi
maul move beyond the line of touch, the Imeout ends
• When the ball becomes unplayable in a lineout, the lineout ends Play restarts with a
scrum.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
F 2015 1
Law 19 Touch and Lineout
WOULD
RUGBY.
19.10	OPTIONS AVAILABLE IN A LINEOUT_______________________
(a)	Levering on an opponent. A lineout player must not use an opponent as a support when
jumping.
Sanction: Penalty kick on the 15-metre line
(b)	Holding or shoving. A lineout player must not hold. push, charge, obstruct or grasp an
opponent not holding the ball except when a ruck or maul is taking place.
Sanction: Penalty kick on the 15-metre line
(c)	Illegal charging. A lineout player must not charge an opponent except in an attempt to
tackle the opponent or to play the ball
Sanction: Penalty kick on the 15 metre line
(d)	Lifting and supporting. Players may assist a team-mate n juniping for rhe ball by l.fr.ng
and supporting that player providing that the lifting and ''or supporting players do not
support the jumping team mate below the shorts from behind or below the thighs from the
front.
Sanction: Free Kick on the 15-melre ■ ne
(e)	Pre-gripping is permitted. Players who are going to lift or support a teammale jump ng
for the ball may pre-grip that team mate providing they do not pre grip below the shorts
from behind and below the thighs from the front.
Sanction: Free Kick on the 15-metre ’ ne
(f)	Jumping, supporting or lifting before the ball is thrown. A player must not jump or b?
lifted or supported before the ball has left the hands of the player throwing in.
Sanction: Free Kick on the 15-metre i ne
(g)	Lowering a Player. Players who support a jumping team-mate must lower that player to
the ground as soon as the ball has been won by a player of either team.
Sanction: Free Kick on the 15-metre line
(h)	Blocking the throw-in. A lineout player must not stand less than 5 metres from the
touchline. A lineout player must not prevent the ball being thrown in 5 metres
Sanction: F- ee K ck on tne 15-metre line
WORLD RUGBY
Haw 19 Touch and Lineout
No illegal charging
Pre-gripping is
permitted
Lifting of lineout
players is permitted
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
F 2015 1
152
Law 19 Touch and Lineout
WORLD
RUGBY.
(i)	When lhe ball has been thrown beyond a player in the lineout, that player may move to the
space between the touchline and the 5-metre line. If the player moves into that space the
player must not move towards that player's goal line before the lineout ends, except in a
peeling off movement.
Sanction: Free Kick on the 15 metre line
G) Catching or deflecting. When jumping for the ball, a p1:, er niu t use either both hands or
the inside arm to try to catch or deflect the ball The jump er must not use the outside arm
alone to try to catch or deflect lhe ball. If the jumper has born hands above the head either
hand may be used to play lhe ball.
Sanction: Free Kick on the 15-metre' ne
(k) Defending at a lineout. A player who jumps and gains [ . of lhe bail in the I neout
may be tackled immediately upon returning to lhe ground
A player who gains possession of the ball in a lineout with? .' jumping may be tackled
immediately.
In both cases, these actions must be commenced before a maul nas formed.
Sanction: Penalty kick on lhe 15-metre line
There are four options available to the player throwing in.
(a)	The thrower may stay within 5 metres of lhe touchline
(b)	The thrower may retire to the offside line 10 metres behind the line of touch.
(c)	The thrower may join lhe lineout as soon as the ball has been thrown in.
(d)	The thrower may move into the receiver position if that position is empty. If the thrower
goes anywhere else, the thrower is offside.
Sanction: Penalty kick on the 15-metre line
133 WORLD RUGBY
Law 19 Touch and Lineout
definite
* kneout player‘pi
Passed back by a ti
ion leaving the lineout to catch the ball knocked or
(a)	When: A player must not peel off until the ball has left the hands of the player throwing
in.
Sanction: f he 15-metre ■ ne. m line with the line of to»ch
(b)	A player who peels off. must stay within the area from that player's Ine of touch to 10
metres from the line of touch, and must keep moving until the lineout has ended.
Sanction: Fr< the 15-metre line, >n ine v,.th the ire of roucn
(<) Players may change their positions in the lineout before the ba'I is thrown in.
(a)	When a lineout forms, there are two separate offside lines, parallel to the goal lines, for the
teams
(o) Participating players. One offside line applies to the players tak ng part in the lineout
(usually some or all of the forwards, plus the scrum half and the player throwing in) Until
the ball is thrown in. and has touched a player or the ground, this offside I ne is the I ne of
touch After that, the offside line is a line through the ba I.
(c)	Players not taking part. The other offside line applies to the players not taking part in the
lineout (usually the backs). For them, the offside line is 10 metres behind the line of touch
or their goal line, if that is nearer
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
2015
130
Law 19 Touch and Lineout
_______________________________________
19 19 OFFSIDE WHEN TAKING PART IN THE LINI
(a) Before the ball has touched a player or the ground A player must not overstep the I ne
of touch. A player is offside if. before the ball has touched a player or the ground, that player
oversteps the line of touch, unless doing so while jumping for the ball 1 he player must jump
from that player’s side of the line of touch
Sanction: Penalty kick on the 15-metre line
(b)	If a player jumps and crosses the line of touch but fails to catch the ball, that player is not
penalised provided that player gets back onside without deny
Players jumping for the ball may take a step in any direct c jrovid ng they do not step
across the line of touch.
Sanction: Penalty kick on the 15 metre line
'c) After the ball has touched a player or the ground. A pl..,, cr not carrying the bail is offs.oe
if. after the ball has touched a player or the ground, that p ay er step-, in front of the ba’I.
unless tackling (or trying to tackle) an opponent. Any attempt to tackle must start from that
player’s side of the ball.
Sanction: Penalty kick on the 15 metre line
(d)	The referee must penalise any player who. intentionally or not. moves into an offside
position without trying to win possession or tackle an opponent.
Sanction: Penalty kick on the 15-metre line
(e)	No player of either team participating in the lineout may leave the lineout until it has ended
Sanction: Penalty kick on the 15-metre line
135 WORLD RUGBY
WO* ID
RUGBY.
I Law 19 Touch and Lineout
(0 Long throw-in. If the player who is throwing in throws the ball beyond the 15-metre line, a
player taking part in the lineout may run infield beyond the 15-metre I ne as soon as the ball
leaves the hands of the player throwing in.
If this happens, an opponent may also run infield If a player runs infield to take a long throw
in. and the ball is i ?.t thrown beyond the 15-metre line, this player is offsde and must be
penalised
Sanction: Penair i the 15-metre line
1 i ■ Ruck and maul from a lineout. When a ruck or a ma ul deve'ops in a lineout the offside line
for a player taking pa the lineout no longer runs through the bal The offside i ne 6 now
the hindmost foot of th .• player’s team in the ruck or maul.
CO The lineout ends when the ruck or maul leaves the line of touch. For this to happen, a’J the
feet of all the players in the ruck or maul must have left the Lne of touch.
() A player taking part in the lineout must either join the ruck or maul, or retire to the offs de
I ne and stay at that line, otherwise that player is offside
Sanction: Penally kick on the 15-melre line
0 The rest of the Law of ruck or maul applies. A player must not jo.n the ruck or maul from th
opponents’ side
Sanction: Penalty kick
f (k) Piayers must not join it in front of the offside line If they do. they are offs de
Sanction: Penalty kick on the 15-metre line
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
156
Law 19 Touch and Lineout
vl)
WORLD
RUGBY.
19.15	OFFSIDE WHEN NOT TAKING PART IN THE LINEOUT
(a) A player who is not taking part in the lineout is offside if that player oversteps the offside
line before the lineout has ended.
Sanction: Penalty kick on the offending team’s offside line c ppo*.i; the place of
infringement, at least 15 metres from the touchline.
(b)	Players not yet onside when the ball is thrown in. A pia. :• " 'mow in the ball even if a
team-mate has not yet reached the offside line However, if this player is not trying to reach
an onside position without delay, this player is offside.
Sanction: Penalty kick on the offending team’s offside In . ne place of
infringement, at least 15 metres from the touchline
(c)	Long throw in. If the player who is throw.ng in throws the os dthe 15-metreLne.a
player of the same team may run forward to take the ball as soon as the ball leaves the
hands of the player throwing in. If that player does so. opponents may also run forward If a
player runs forward to take a long throw in. and the ball is not thrown beyond the 15-metre
Ime, this player is offside and must be penalised.
Sanction: Penally kick on the offending team’s offside line, pposue the place of
infringement, at least 15 metres from the touchline
(d)	Ruck and maul from a lineout. When a ruck or maul develops in a lineout the I neojt has
not ended until all the feet of all the players in the ruck or maul have moved beyond the fcne
of touch.
Until then, the offside line for players not taking part in the lineout is still 10 metres beh nd
the Ime of touch, or the goal line if that is nearer A player who oversteps this offside line 6
offside.
Sanction: Penalty kick on the offside line, at least 15 metres from the touchline
137 WORLD RUGBY
BLaw2O Scrum
RUGBY

Is to restart play quickly, safely and fairly, after a minor

Id of play when eight players from each team, bound
ach team, close up with their opponents so that the
^Interlocked. This creates a tunnel into which a scrum
front row players can compete for possession by
| of their feet.
[nust not be within 5 metres of the goal line. A scrum
petres of a touchline

ween the two front rows.
[ho throws the ball Into the scrum Is the scrum half.
iry line on the ground In the tunnel beneath the line
vo front rows meet.
IDEFINITIC
TIThe purpose of thl
^infringement or aj
*A scrum is forme
’•together in three rj
hheads of the front]
hhalf throws the bal|
hhookingthe balK
—
TiThe middle line of1
ccannot take place9
TThe tunnel Isthesq
TThe player of eithe!
TThe middle line isai	....
»*here the shoulden^
TThe middle player In each front row is the hooker.
TThe players on eitheFsIde of the hooker are the props. The left side props are the
Woose head props. The right side props are the tight head props.
TThe two players In the second row who push on the props and the hooker are the
Weeks.
TThe outside players who bind onto the second or third row are the flankers.
TThe player in the third row who usually pushes on both locks Is the No.8.
Alternatively, the No. 8 may push on a lock and a flanker.
"'S
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
158
Law 20 Scrum

WORLD
RUGBY.
Tf^FQRMINGASCRUM
(a) Where the scrum takes place. The place for a scrum is where the infringement or
stoppage happened, or as near to it as is practicable in the field of play, unless otherwise
stated in Law.
(b) If this is less than 5 metres from a touchline, the place for the scrum is 5 metres from that
touchline. A scrum can take place only in rhe field of play. The middle line of a scrum must
not be within 5 metres of the goal line when it is formed.
(c)	If there is an infringement or stoppage in in-goal, rhe place for the scrum is 5 metres from
the goal-line. The scrum is formed in line with the infringement or stoppage
(d)	No delay. A team must not intentionally delay forming a scrum.
Sanction: Free Kick
(e)	Number of players: eight. A scrum must have eight players from each team. All eight
players must stay bound to the scrum until it ends. Each front row must have three players
in it. no more and no less. Two locks must form rhe second row.
Sanction: Penalty kick
Exception: When a team is reduced to fewer than fifteen for any reason, then the number
of players of each team in the scrum may be similarly reduced. Where a permitted
reduction is made by one team, there is no requirement for the other team to make a
similar reduction. However, a team must not have fewer than five players in the scrum.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(f)	Front rows coming together. First, the referee marks with a foot the place where the
scrum is to be formed. Before the two front rows come together they must be standing not
more than an arm's length apart. The ball is in the scrum half's hands, ready to be thrown in
The front rows must crouch so that when they meet, each player's head and shoulders are
no lower than the hips. The front rows must interlock so that no player s head is next to the
head of a team-male.
Sanction: Free Kick
(g)
The referee will call crouch and then bind The front rows crouch and using rheir outside
arm each prop must b nd. A loose head prop must bind on the opposing tight-head prop by
placing the left arm inside rhe right arm of the tight head and gripping the tight-head prop's
jersey on the back o' side A tight-head prop must b:nd on the oppos-ng loose-head prop by
placing the right arm outside the left upper arm of the opposing loose-head prop and
gripping the loo :e -h ead prop's jersey with the right hand only on the back or side. The props
must not grip l he opponent's chest, arm, sleeve or collar. Following a pause, the referee will
then call 'set" when -he front rows are ready. The front rows may then engage The 'set’ call
is not a command out an indication that the front rows may come together when ready
The sanction for any infringement will be a free kick.
Sanction: Fee
(n) Acrouched position is the extension of the normal stance by bend ng the knees sufficiently
to move into the engagement without a charge.
(i) Charging. A front row must not form al a distance from its opponents and rush against
them or pull them. This is dangerous play.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(i) Stationary and parallel. Until the ball leaves the scrum half’s hands, the scrum must be
stationary and the middle line must be parallel to the goal lines. A team must not shove the
scrum away from the mark before the ball is thrown in.
Sanction: Free Kiel
W All players in a position to shove. When a scrum has formed, the body and feet of each
front row player must be in a normal position to make a forward shove.
Sanction: Free Kick
Co)
This means that rhe front row players must have both feet on the ground with ther
firmly on at least one foot. Players must not cross their feet, altnough the co o P y
may cross a team ■ mate's foot. Each player's shoulders must be no lower than rhe p .
Sanction: Free Kick
139 WORLD RUGBY
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
(c)	Hooker in a position to hook. Until the ball is thrown in. the hooker must be in a position
to hook the ball. The hookers must have both feet on the ground, with their weight firmly on
at least one foot. A hooker’s foremost foot must not be in front of the foremost foot of that
team’s props.
Sanction: Free Kick
20.3	BINDING IN THE SCRUM_________
r(b) Binding by hookers. The hooker may bind either over or under the arms of the props. The
props must nor support the hooker so that the hooker has no weight on either foot
Sanction: Penaity kick
(c)	Binding by loose head props. A loose head prop must bind on the opposing tight head
prop by p'acing the left arm instde the right arm of the tight head and gripping the tight
head prop’s jersey on the back or side The loose head prop must not grip the chest, arm.
sleeve or collar of the opposition tight head prop The loose head prop must not exert any
downward pressure
Sanction: Penalty kick
(d)	Binding by tight head props. A tight head prop must bind on the opposing loose head
prop by placing the right arm outside the left upper arm of the opposing loose head prop
The tight head prop must grip the loose head prop’s jersey with the right hand only on the
back or side. The tight head prop must not grip the chest, arm. sleeve or collar of the
opposition loose head prop. The tight head prop must nor exert any downward pressure
Sanction: Penalty kick
1*<1 WORLD RUGBY
Middle line
Binding by props
(e)	Both the loose head and tight head ptops may alter the.r b nd providing they do so n
accordance with this Law
(0 Binding by all other pl
on a lock’s body with at
with the props in front c
Sanction: Penalty kick
(g) Flanker obstructing opposing scrum half -
angle, provided the flanker Is properly bound
obstruct the opposing scrum half moving forward.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(n) Scrum collapse. If a scrum collapses, rhe referee must Mow rhe e.h.srie immediately so
that players stop pushing
i. All p’ayers in a swum, other than frontro.v players, must bind
one arm prior to the scrum engagement. The locks must bind
n. No other player other than a prop may ho'd an opponent.
flanker may bind onto the scrum at any
me flanker must not widen that angle and so
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
(i) Player forced upwards, if a player in a scrum is lifted in the air. or is forced upwards our of
the scrum, the referee must blow the whistle immediately so that players stop pushing
20THE TEAM THROWING THE BALL INTO THE SCRUM
(a)	After an infringement, the team that did not cause the infringement throws in the ball
(b)	Scrum after ruck. Refer to Law 16 7
(c)	Scrum after maul. Refer to Law 17.6
(d)	Scrum after any other stoppage. After any other stoppage arily not covered by
Law. the team that was moving forward before the stoppage ii . -n the ball. If neither
team was mov.ng forward, the attacking team throws in the b< i
?) When a scrum remains stationary and the ball does not emerge immediately a further
scrum is ordered at the place of the stoppage The ball is thrown in by the team not in
possession at the time of the stoppage
(f)	When a scrum becomes stationary and does not start moving immediately, the ball must
emerge immediately If it does not a further scrum will be ordered The ball is thrown in by
the team not in possession at the time of the stoppage.
(g)	If a scrum collapses or lifts up into the air without sanction a further scrum will be ordered
and the team who originally threw m the ball will throw the ball in again
If a scrum has to be reformed for any other reason not covered in this Law the team who
originally threw in the ball w.ll throw the ball in again.
20.5	THROWING THE BALL INTO THE SCRUM
No Delay. As soon as the front rows have come together, the scrum half must throw in the
ball without delay The scrum half must throw in the ball when told to do so by the referee
The scrum half must throw in the ball from the side of the scrum first chosen.
Sanction:-.t. K •
1^3 WORLD RUGBY
Law 20 Scrum
—_____
WO«LO
RUGBY.
200.6	HOW THE SCRUM HALF THROWS IN THE BALL
(a)	Tne scrum half must stand one metre from the mark on the m ddle Ine so that player's
head does not touch me scrum or go beyond the nearest front row p'ayer
Sanction: Fr<-
(d)	The scrum half must hold ’he ball with both hands, with its ma,or axis paraFel to the ground
and to the touch':ne over the middle Ime between the front rows, mid-way between knee
and ankle.
Sanction: Fi.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
2015
(c) The scrum half must throw in the ball at a quick speed. The bail must be released from the
scrum half’s hands from outside the tunnel
Sanction: Free Kick
(d) The scrum half must throw in the ball straight along the middle line, so that it first touches
the ground immediately beyond the width of the nearer prop s shoulders.
Sanction: Free K •
(e)	The scrum half must throw in the ball with a single forward movement. This means that
there must be no backward movement with the ball. The scrum half must not pretend to
throw the ball.
Sanction: Free Kick
1.7	WHEN THE SCRUM BEGINS
a) Play in the scrum begins when the ball leaves the hands of tl... scrum half.
vb) If the scrum half throws in the ball and it comes out at either end of the tunnel, the bal
must be thrown in again unless a free kick or penalty has been awarded.
(c) If the ball is not played by a front row player, and it goes straight through the tunnel and
comes out behind the foot of a far prop without being touched, the scrum half must thro.v
it in again
iz<5 WORLD RUGBY
Wa\V20 Scrum
PLAYERS
to) Striking before the throw-in (‘foot up’). All front ro-w players must p'ace then feel to
leave a clear funnel Until the ball has left the scrum half's hands, they must not raise or
advance a foot They must nor do anything to slop the ball be.ng thrown in to the scrum
correctly or touching the ground at the correct place.
Sanction: Fi-
fe) Striking after the throw-in. Once the ball touches the ground in the tunnel, any front row
player may use eithe- foot to try to win possession of the ball.
fe) Kicking-out. A front row player must not intentionally kick the ba I out of the tunnel m the
direction from which it was thrown in.
Sanction: Fr
W) If the ball is kicked out unintentionally, the same team must throw it in aga n.
(e)	If the ball is repeatedly kicked out, the referee must treat this as intentional and penalise the
offender.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(0 Swinging. A front row player must not strike for the ball with both feet. No player may
intentionally raise both feet from rhe ground, either when the ball is being thrown in or
afterwards.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(g) Twisting, dipping or collapsing. Front row players must not twst or lower their bodies, or
pull opponents, or do anything that is likely to collapse the scrum, either when the ball is
bemg thrown in or afterwards.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(n) Referees must penalise strictly any intentional collapsing of the scrum This is dangerous p’ay.
Sanction: Penalty kick
() Lifting or forcing an opponent up. A front row player must not lift an opponent in the air
or force an opponent upwards out of the scrum, either when the bali is being thrown in or
afterwards. This is dangerous play.
Sanction: Penalty kick
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
tr<6
kl)
WORLD
RUGBY.
Law 20 Scrum

20.9	SCRUM-GENERALRESTRICTION!_____
(a)	All players: Collapsing. A p!ayer must not intentionally collapse a scrum A player must not
intentionally fall or kneel in a scrum. This is dangerous play
Sandion: Penalty kick
(b)	All players: Handling In the scrum. Players must not hand’? the ball in the scrum or ptk t
up with their legs
Sanction: Penalty kick
(c)	All players: Other restrictions on winning the ball. Playe. sn .>• ot try Io w;n the bal in
the scrum by using any part of their body except their foot or lower leg.
Sanction: Free Kick
(d)	All players: When the ball comes out, leave it out. V.'hei rhe tai has left the scrum, a
player must not bring it back in to the scrum.
Sanction: Free Kick
(e)	All players: No falling on the ball. A player must not fall on or over the ball as if is com ng
out of the scrum.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(f)	Locks and flankers: Staying out of the tunnel. A player who is not a front row p’ayer
must not play the ball in the tunnel.
Sanction: Free Kick
(g)	Scrum half: Kicking In the scrum. A scrum half must not kick the ball while it is In the
scrum.
Sanction: Penalty kick
(h)	Scrum half: Dummying. A scrum half must not take any action to make the opponents
think that the ball is out of the scrum while it is still in the scrum.
Sanction: Free Kck
(i)	Scrum half: Holding opposing flanker. A scrum half must not grasp an opposing flanker
Sanction: Penalty kick
1Z<7 WORLD RUGBY
('(a) The ball comes out. When I he bah comes out of the scrum in any direction except the
tunnel, the scrum ends.
I€□) Scrum In the in-gc A scrum cannot take place in the in-goal. When the ball in a scrum is
on or over the goal I nt?, the scrum ends and an attacker or a defender may legally ground
the ball for a try or a touch down.
C (c) Hindmost player unbinds. The hindmost player in a scrum is the player whose feet are
nearest the team's own goal line If the hindmost player unbinds from rhe scrum with the
ball at that player's feet and picks up the ball, the scrum ends.
(3) if a scrum is wheeled through more than 90 degrees, so that the middle line has passed
beyond a position parallel to the touchline, the referee must slop play and order another
scrum.
• (b) This new scrum is formed at the place where the previous scrum ended The ball is thrown
in by the team not in possession ar the time of the stoppage. If neither team win
possession, it is thrown in by the team that previously threw it in.
1 (a) When the scrum is set. the scrum half not throwing the ba'I into the scrum must take up a
position either at the same side of the scrum as the scrum half throwing in the ba I or
behind the offside line defined for other players.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
r 2015 1
1i<8
WORLD
RUGBY.
Law 20 Scrum
(b)	Offside for scrum-halves. When a team has won the bail in a scrum, the scrum half of lhai
team is offside if both feet are in front of the ball while it is still in the scrum. If the scrum
half has only one foot in front of the ball, the scrum half is not offside
Sanction: Penalty kick
Scrum offside
1Z<9 WORLD RUGBY
I Law 20 Sen
WO«lO
RUGBY.
•) When a team has won the ball in a scrum, the scrum hall of the opposing team is offsde if
that scrum half steps in front of the ball with either foot while the bah is sti.l in the scrum
Sanction: Penally '■ cl
- The scrum half whose team does not win possession of the ball must not move to the
opposite side of the scrum and overstep the offside line For that scrum half that runs
through the hindmost foot of that player's team in the scrum.
Sanction: Penalty
The scrum half whose team does nor win possession of the bail must not mo'.e away from
’he scrum and then remain in front of the offside line For that scrum half that runs through
the hindmost foot of that player s team in the scrum.
Sanction: Penalty • I
) Any player may be scrum half, but a team can have only one scrum half at each scrum
Sanction; Penally < ck cn the offside line
■:1 Offside for players not in the scrum. Players who are not in the scrum and who are not
the team's scrum half, are offside if they remain in front of the;r offside hne or overstep the
offsde line which is a line parallel to the goal lines and 5 metres beh nd the hindmost player
of each team In a scrum.
Sanction: Penalty kick on the offside line
") If the hindmost foot of a team is on or behind that team's goal I ne. rhe offside I ne for
scrum halves and non participants is the goal hne
' Loitering. When a scrum is forming, players not faking pari in it mast retire to their offside
I ne without delay. If they do not, they are loitering. Loiterers must be penalised.
Sanction: Penalty kick on the offside line
13 UNDER 19 VARIATIONS IN ADULT MATCHES
A Union may implement the Under 19 Scrum Law Vanations at defined levels of the Game
within its jurisdiction
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
Law 21 Penalty and Free Kicks
DEFINITIONS
Penalty kicks and free kicks are awarded to the nor
infringements by their opponents.
21.1	WHERE PENALTY AND FREE KICKS ARE AWARDED
Unless a Law states otherwise, the mark for a penalty or fro > ick is. .t t he place of
infringement.
21.2	WHERE PENALTY AND FREE KICKS ARE TAKEN
fa) The kicker must take the penalty or free kick at the mark or anywhere behind it on a line
through the mark If rhe place for a penalty or free kick is within 5 metres of the opponents'
goal Ime. the mark for the kick is 5 metres from the goal line, opposite the place of
infringement.
(b)	When a penalty or free kick is awarded in in-goal. the mark for the kick is in the field of pity
5 metres from the goal line, in line with the place of infringement
Sanction: Any infringement by the kicker's team results in a scrum 5 metres from the goa
Ime in l.ne with the mark The opposing team throws in the bail
(c)	If a quickly taken penalty kick or free kick is taken from the wrong place the referee wffl order
the kick to be taken again.
21.3	HOW THE PENALTY AND FREE KICKS ARE TAKEN__________ j
(a)	Any player may take a penalty or free kick awarded for an infringement with any type of
kick punt, drop kick or place kick. The ball may be kicked with any part of the lower leg from
knee to rhe foot, excluding the knee and the heel.
151 WORLD RUGBY
(b) Bouncing the ball on the knee is nor taking a kick.
Sanction r ngement by the kicker’s team results in a scrum at rhe mark. The
opposing • ai. <ows in the ball
(<) The kicker mu »t use the ball that was in play unless the referee decides it was defective
Sanction ngement by the kicker’s ream results in a scrum at the mark. The
opposing i .rows tn the ball.
_ 1A PENALTY AND FREE KICK OPTIONS AND REQUIREMENTS
(a) Scrum alt ernative. A team awarded a penalty or free kick may choose a scrum instead
They throw in rhe ball.
(b)	Lineout alternative. A team awarded a penalty or a free kick at a lineout may choose a
further lineout into which they throw in. This is in addition to the scrum option.
(c)	No delay. If a kicker indicates to the referee the intention to kick a penally kick at goal, the
kick must be taken within one minute from the lime the player indicates the intention to
kick at goal. The intention to kick is signalled by the arrival of the kicking tee or sand, or
when the player makes a mark on the ground. The player must complete the kick within
one minute even if the ball rolls over and has to be placed again If the one m.nute is
exceeded, the kick is disallowed, a scrum is ordered at the place of the mark and the
opponents throw in the ball. For any other type of kick, the kick must be taken without
undue delay
(d)	A clear kick. The kicker must kick the ball a wsible distance If the kicker is ho'ding it. if must
clearly leave the hands. If it is on the ground, it must clearly leave the mark.
(?) Place kicking for touch. The kicker may punt or drop kick for touch but must not place kick
for touch.
(f)	Kicker’s freedom of action. The kicker is free to kick the ball in any direction and may play
the ball again
(g)	Kick taken in the in-goal, if a player retires into in-goal to lake a penalty or free kick
awarded in the field of play and a defending player by foul play prevents an opponent from
scoring a try a penalty try is awarded.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
F 2015 1
152
Law 21 Penalty and Free Kicks
(h)	Out of play in the in-goal if a player retires into m-goal to take a penalty or free kick
awarded m the field of play and following the kick the ball goes into touch in goal, or on or
over the dead ball line, or a defending player makes the ball dead before it has crossed the
goal tne. a 5-metre scrum is awarded. The attacking team throws in the ball.
(>) Behind the ball. All the kicker s team at a penalty or free Mck m ,-.r be behind the ba I until
it has been kicked, except the placer for a place kick.
(j) Kick taken quickly. If the penalty or free kick is taken so ; I iy that players of the kicker’s
team are still in front of the ball, they are not penalised fr • ing offside. However, they
must retire immediately They must not stop retiring uni, : ey are onside They must nor
take pan in the game until they are onside This applies r . ' pldyers of that ream, whether
they are inside or outside the playing area
(k) In this situation, players become onside when they run behind the team-mate who rook tne
penally or free kick, or when a team mate carrying the ball runs in front of them, or when a
team-mate who was behind the ball when it was kicked runs ,n front of them
An offside player cannot be put onside by any action of an opponent
Sanction: Unless otherwise stated in Law any infringement by the kicker’s team results ma
scrum at the mark The opposing team throw in the ball
21.5	SCORING A GOAL FROM A PENALTY KICI
(a)	A penalty goal can be scored from a penalty kick.
(b) If the kicker indicates to the referee the intention to kick at goal, the kicker must kick at goa'
Once the kicker has made the intention clear, there can be no change of the intention. Tne
referee may enquire of the kicker as to the intention.
(c)	If the kicker indicates to the referee the intent to kick at goal, the opposing team must stanj
still with their hands by their sides from the time the kicker starts to approach to kick until
the ball is kicked.
(d)	If the kicker has not indicated an intention to kick ar goal but fakes a drop kick and scores a
goal, the goal stands.
153 WORLD RUGBY
Law 21 Penalty and
Free Kicks
WORLD
RUGBY.
(e)	If the opposing team infringes while the kick is be<ng taken but the kick at goal is successful.
the goal stands. A further penalty is not awarded for the infringement.
(0 The kicker may place the ball directly on the ground or on sand, sawdust or a kicking tee
approved by the Union.
Sanction: otherwise stated in Law any infringement by the kicker's team results in a
scrum at th m: The opposing team throws in the bail
Penalty kick at goal
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
2015
15ir
w
WORLD
RUGBY.
Law 21 Penalty and Free Kicks
. ..________________________________________
aw 21
Penalty and Free Kicks
21.6 SCORING FROM A FREE KICK
(a) A goal cannot be scored from a free kick.
(b) The team awarded a free kick cannot score a dropped goal until after the ball next becomes
dead, or until after an opponent has played or touched it. or has tackled the ball earner This
restriction applies also to a scrum or lineout taken instead of a free kick.
21.7 WHAT THE OPPOSING TEAM MUST DO AT A PENALTY KICK
(a) Must run from the mark. The opposing team must immed: jtirun towards their own
goal Ime until they are at least 10 metres away from the mark for the penalty kick, or until
they have reached their goal line if that is nearer the mark
(b) Must keep running. Even if rhe penalty kick is taken and the kicker’s team is playing the
ball, opposing players must keep running until they have retired the necessary distance.
They must not lake part in the game until they have done so
(c)	Kick taken quickly. If the penalty kick is taken so quickly that opponents have no
opportunity to retire, they will not be penalised for this. However, they must continue to
retire as described in 21 7(b) above or until a team-mate who was 10 metres from the
mark has run in front of them, before they lake part m the game.
(d)	Interference. The opposing team must not do anything to delay the penalty kick or
obstruct the kicker They must not intentionally take, throw or kick the ball out of reach of
the kicker or the kicker’s team males.
Sanction: Any infringement by the opposing team results in a second penalty kick 10
metres in front of the mark for rhe first kick. This mark must not be within 5 metres of the
goal line Any player may take the kick. The kicker may change the type of kick and may
choose to kick at goal. If the referee awards a second penalty kick, the second penally kick is
nor taken before the referee has made the mark indicating the place of the penalty
}) Must run from the mark. The opposing team must immediately run towards their own
goal line until they arc. t least 10 metres away from the mark for the free kick, or until they
have reached their gc line if that is nearer the mark. If the free kick is in a defending teams
in goal area, the opposing team must immediately run towards the r own goal Ime until
they are at least 10 n ires away from the mark and not nearer than 5 metres from the goal
line
•) Must keep running. Even if the free kick is taken and the kicker’s team is p'aymg me baD.
opposing players mu i keep running until they have retired the necessary distance They
must not take part in the game until they have done so.
:) Kick taken quickly. If the free kick is taken so quickly that opponents have no opportunity
to retire, they will not be penalised for this. However, they must continue to retire as
described in 21 8(b) above or until a team-mate who was 10 metres from the mark has run
in front of them, before they take part in the game
Interference. The opposing team must not do anyth.ng tode'ay tne free uck or obstruct
the kicker. They must not intentionally take, throw or kick the ball out of reach of tne ic<er
or the kicker’s team mates.
(?) Charging the free kick. Once they have retired the necessary d stance. players of the
opposing team may charge and try to prevent the kick being to<en. They may c arge
free kick as soon as the kicker starts to approach to kick.
?) Preventing the free kick. If the opposing team charge and preventthe free «.ck be ng
taken, the kick is disallowed. Play restarts with a scrum at the mark ne oppos
throw in the ball.
155 WORLD RUGBY
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
Law 21
Penalty and Free Kicks
(g) Free kick taken in the in-goal. If a free kick has been awarded and rhe player retires into
in goal to take it and the opponents charge and prevent the kick from being taken, a 5-
metre scrum is ordered. The attacking team throws in the ba I If a free kick is taken in the in-
goal. an opponent who legitimately plays it there can score a fry.
(h) Charged down. If opponents charge down a free kick in the pl <, ,ng area, play continues.
Sanction*. Any infringement by the opposing team result . ?e kick, awarded 10
metres in front of the mark for the first kick. This mark mu- "i n 5 metres of the
goal line Any player may take rhe kick. If the referee awa« ~e kick, the second
free kick is not taken before the referee has made the m ne place of the free
kick.
21.9	CONTRIVED INFRINGEMENTS AT THE PENALTY KICK
If the referee believes that the kicker’s team has contrived an infringement by their
opponents, the referee does not award a further penally but allows play to continue
I 1.10 CONTRIVED INFRINGEMENTS AT THE FREE KICK
(a) The kicker must nor pretend to kick. As soon as the kicker makes a move to kick, the
opponents may charge.
(b)	If the referee believes that the kicker s team has contrived an infringement by their
opponents, the referee does not award a further free kick but allows play to continue
157 WORLD RUGBY
luring the match
gcoal
212 In-goal
WORLD
RUGBY,
Law 22 In-Goal
DEFINITIONS
In-goal is part of the ground as defined in Law 1 wl
by players from either team.
When attacking players are first to ground the ball
attacking players score a try.
When defending players are first to ground the bal
players make a touch down.
A defending player who has one foot on the goal II
the ball is considered to have both feet In In-goalJ
je grounded
In-goal, the
ending
il who receives
I
>2.1 GROUNDING THE BALL
Grounding the ball
159 WORLD RUGBY
Law 22 In-Goal
world
RUGBY.
There are two ways a player can ground the ball:
U-3) Player touches the ground with the ball. A player grounds the ball by ho'd.ng the ball and
touching the ground with it. in in-goal 'Holding' means holding in the hand or hands, or in
the arm or arms. No downward pressure is required.
(W>) Player presses down on the ball. A player grounds the ball when it is on the ground in the
in goal and the p >, er presses down on it with a hand or hands, arm or arms, or the front of
the p'ayer's booyf • om waist to neck inclusive.
(e[a) Try. When an attacking player who is onside is first to ground the ba'l in the opponents' in-
goal, the player scores a try. This applies whether an attacking or a defending player is
responsible for the ball being in the m-goal
(&>) When an attacking player who has possesion of the ball grounds the ball m m-goal and
simultaneously contacts the touch-in-goal line or the dead-bal line (or anywhere beyond).
a 22m drop out is awarded to the defending team.
A OTHER WAYS TO SCORE A TRY
i) Grounded on the goal line. The goal line is part of rhe in-goal if an attacking player is first
to ground the ball on the opponents' goal line, a try is scored.
' o) Grounded against a goal post. The goal posts and padd ng surround ng them are pan
the goal line, which is part of in-goal. If an attacking player is first to ground the ba'l against
a goal post or padding, a try is scored.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 160
WORLD
RUGBY.
Law 22 In-Goal
Scoring a try - grounded against the g:. :! post
(c)	Pushover try. A scrum or ruck
cannot take place in the in goal.
If a scrum or ruck is pushed into
the in-goal, an attacking player
may legally ground the ball as
soon as the ball reaches or
crosses the goal I ne and a try is
scored
161 WORLD RUGBY
Law 22 In-Goal
____
would
RUGBY.
(a)	Momentum try. If an attacking player with the ball is tackled short of the goal line but the
player’s momentum carries the p'ayer in a continuous movement along the ground into the
opponents’ in-goal, and the player is first to ground the ba I. a try is scored.
(e) Tackled near the goal line. If a player is tackled near to the opponents’ goal line so that
this player can immediately reach out and ground the ball on or over the goal line, a try is
scored
(0 In this situation, defending players who are on lhe.r feet may legally prevent the try by
pulling the ba'l from the tackled
player’s hands or arms, but
must not I ? th - ball
(g) Player In touch or touch-in-
goal. If an attack.ng player Is in
touch or in touch .n-goal, the
player can score a try by
grounding the ball in the
opponents in-goal provided
the player is not carrying the
ball.
(h) Penalty try. A penally try is
awarded if a try would probably
have been scored but for foul
play by the defending ream. A
penalty try is awarded if a try
would probably have been
scored in a better position but
for foul play by the defending
team.
(«) A penalty try is awarded
between the goal posts. The
defending team may charge
the conversion kick after a
penalty try.
Player in touch-in-goal, not
carrying the ball but
grounding the ball and
scoring a try
162
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
22.5	BALL GROUNDED BY A DEFENDING PLAYI

(a)	Touch down, '//hen defending players are first to ground the ball in the.r m-goal. it results in
a touch down.
(b)	Player in touch or touch-ln-goal. If defending players are in touch .n goal, they can make
a touch down by grounding the ball in their m-goal provided they are not carrying the ball
(c)	Grounded against a goal post. The goal posts and padding surrcundmg them are part of
the goal line. If a defending player is first to ground the ball aga r.-t a goa’ post or padding.
the result is a touch down
12.6	SCRUM, RUCK OR MAUL PUSHED INTO IN-GOAL
A scrum, ruck or maul can lake place only in the field of play As s-oon as a scrum, ruck or
maul is pushed across the goal line, a player may legally ground me ball.This results in a
touch down or try.
22.7	RESTARTING AFTER A TOUCH DOWN
(a)	When an attacking player sends or carries the ball into the opponents’ m-goal and it
becomes dead there, either because a defender grounded it or because it went into touch-
in-goal or on or over the dead ball line, a drop-out is awarded.
(b)	If an attacking player knocks-on or throws-forward in the field of play and the ball goes into
the opponents’ In goal and if is made dead there, a scrum is awarded where the knock-on
or throw forward happened.
(c)	If. at a kick-off or drop out, the ball is kicked into the opponents’ in-goal without having
touched or been touched by a player and a defending player grounds it there or makes it
dead without delay, the defending team have two choices:
• To have a scrum formed at the centre of the line from which the kick was taken and they
throw in the ball, or
• To have the other team kick off or drop out again.
163 WORLD RUGBY
(d)	If a defending player threw or took the ball into the in-goal, and a defending player
grounded it. and there has been no infringement, play is restarted by a 5-metre scrum. The
position of the scrum is in line with where the bail has been touched down. The attacking
side throws in the ball.
(e)	If a defending team has put the ball into their own in-goal and a defending player kicks the
ball so th--11; charged down in in-goal and then made dead, the attacking s de is awarded a
5-metre scrum -n line with where the ball is made dead and they throw m the ball
If a ream ■ :Is the ball through their opponents' in-goal into touch-in-goal or on or over the
dead ball line.. cept by an unsuccessful kick at goal or attempted dropped goal, the
defending team has two choices.
• To have a drop-out. or
• To have a scrum at the place where the ball was kicked and they throw in

YER IN IN-GOAli

(a)	A defending player who has part of one foot in m-goal is cons dered to have both feet in in-
goal.
(b)	If a player with one or both feet on or behind the goal line, picks up lhe bat which was
stationary within the field of play, that player has picked up the ball in the field of play and
thereby that player has taken the ball into in-goal.
(c)	If a player with one or both feet on or behind lhe goal line picks up the ball, which was in
motion within the field of play, that player has picked up the ball within in-goal
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
r 2015 1
(d)	If a player with one or both feet on or behind the dead ball line, picks up the ball, which was
stationary within in-goal. that player deemed has picked up the ball m in-goal and thereby
that player has made the ball dead.
(e)	If a player with one or both feet on or behind the dead ball line picks up the ball, which was
in motion within in-goal, that player has picked up the ball outside lhe playing area
[ 22.10 BALL HELD UP IN-GOAL
When a player carrying lhe ball is held up in the in-goal so that the c.i ay er cannot ground the
ball, the ball is dead. A 5-metre scrum is formed. This would apply if play sm iilar to a maul
fakes place in m-goal. The attacking team throws in the ball.
.11 BALL DEAD IN IN-GO,
31
(a)	When the ball touches the touch-in-goal line or the dead ball line, or touches anything or
anyone beyond those lines, lhe ball becomes dead If the ball was piayed into in-goal by the
attacking team, a drop-out shall be awarded to the defending team If the ball was played
into m-goal by the defending team, a 5-metre scrum shall be awarded and the attacking
ream throws in the ball.
(b)	When a player carrying the ball touches the touch-in-goal line, the dead ball line, or touches
the ground beyond those lines, the ball becomes dead If the ball was carried into in-goal by
the attacking team, a drop out shall be awarded to the defending team. If the ball was
carried into in-goat by the defending team, a 5 metre scrum shall be awarded and the
attacking team throws in the ball.
(c)	When a player scores a try or makes a touch down, the ball becomes dead.
22.12 BALL OR PLAYER TOUCHING A FLAG OR FLAG (CORNER) POST
If the ball or a player carrying the ba’I touches a flag or a flag (corner) post at the
intersection of the touch-in-goal lines and the goal lines or at the intersection of the touch-
in-goal lines and the dead ball lines without otherwise being in touch or touch-m-goal the
ball is not out of play unless it is first grounded against a flag post
165 WORLD RUGBY
WORLD
RUGBY.
Player touches corner post before ball is grounded

IGEMENT WITH SCRUM SANCTION

If an attacking player commits an infringement in m-goal. for which the sanction is a scrum
for example, a knock-on. play is restarted with a 5-metre scrum. The scrum is formed in line
with the place of the infringement and the defending ream throws in the bah
2M.1A DEFENDING INFRINGEMENT WITH SCRUM SANCTION
If a defending player infringes in in-goal. for which the sanction is a scrum, for example, a
knock-on. play is restarted with a 5-metre scrum. The scrum Is formed in line with the place
of the infringement and the attacking team throws in the ball
If there is doubt about which team first grounded the ball >n the n-goal. play is re-started by
a 5-metre scrum, in line with the place where the bail was grounded The attacking team
throws m the ball.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION
r 2015 1
166
WORLD
RUGBY.
Law 22 In-Goal
22.16	INFRINGEMENTS IN IN-GOAL
All infringements in the in-goal are treated as if they had taken p'ace m tne field of play
A knock-on or a throw forward in the ingoal results in a 5-metre crum. opposite the place
of infringement
Sanction: For an mfnngement. the mark for a penalty kick <be in the in-
goal. When a penalty kick or free kick is awarded for an infii; in goal, the
mark for the kick is in the f eld of play. 5 metres from the gc the place of
infringement.
'2.17 MISCONDUCT OR UNFAIR PLAY IN IN-GOi
Obstruction by the attacking team. When a player charge > c nten’ ally obstructs an
opponent in the in goal who has jusr kicked the ball, the opponent s team may choose to
take the penalty kick either in the field of play, 5 metres from the goal line opposite the
place of infringement, or where the ball landed
If they make the second choice and the ball lands in or near touch, the mark for the pena’ty
kick is 15 metres from the touchline, opposite where the ball went into touch or where it
landed
A try is disallowed and a penalty kick awarded if a fry would probably nor have been scored
but for foul play by rhe attacking team.
(b)	Foul play by the defending team. Tne referee awards a penally try if a try would probably
have been scored but for foul play by the defending team.
The referee awards a penalty fry if a try would prooably have been scored in a better
position but for foul play by the defending team
A penalty try is awarded between the goal posts The defending team may charge the
conversion kick after a penalty try.
A player who prevents a try being scored through foul play must either be cautioned and
temporarily suspended or sent off.
(c)	Any other foul play. When a player commits any other foul play in the in goal while the
ba’I is out of play, the penalty kick is awarded at the place where the game would otherwise
have re-started.
Sanction: Penally kick
167 WORLD RUGBY