Definitions
(I)
WORLD
RUGBY.
1)
WORLD
RUGBY.
------------ j
DEFINITIONS
• , ■ . _ ■
0-9
22: The area between the goal line and the 22-metre line, and between the touchlines. It
includes the 22-metre line but nor the goal line or the touchlines.
A
Actual time: Continuous elapsed time (see playing time).
Advantage: A clear and real tactical or territorial benefit arising after an infringement by the
opposition.
Attacking team: The opposition to the team in whose half play is raking place.
B
Ball-carrier: A player who is in possession of the ball.
Beyond or behind or in front of a position: Means with both feet, except - here the context
makes that inappropriate.
Binding: Grasping another player’s body firmly between the shoulders and the hips with the
whole arm in contact from hand to shoulder
Blood injury: Uncontrolled active bleeding
c
Captain: The player nominated by a team to lead that team, consult the referee and select
options relating to referee decisions.
Cavalry charge: An illegal type of attack, which usually happens near the goal line, when the
attacking team is awarded a penalty or free-kick At a signal from the kicker, a line of attacking
players charge forward from a distance When they get near, the kicker taps the ball and
passes to a player
D
Dead: The ball is dead when the referee blows the whistle to stop play or following an
unsuccessful conversion
Dead-ball line: The line at either end (and nor part) of the playing area.
Defending team: The team in whose half play is taking place.
Directly caught: A ball caught without first touching anyone else or the ground.
Drop-kick: After being intentionally dropped to the ground from the hand or hands, the ball
is kicked as it rises from its first bounce.
17 WORLD RUGBY
DEFINITIONS
WORLD
RUGBY.
F
Field of play: The area between the goal lines and the touch lines. Those lines are not part of
the field of play
Flying wedge: An illegal type of attack, which usually happens near the goal line, when the
attacking team is awarded a penalty or free-kick The kicker taps the ball and starts the attack,
either by driving towards the goal line or by passing to a team-mate who drives forward.
Immediately, team-mates bind on each side of the ball-carrier in a wedge formation before
engaging the opposition Often one or more of these team-mates is in front of the ball-
carrier.
Forward: Towards the opposition's dead-ball line.
Foul play: Anything a player does within the playing enclosure that is contrary to Law 9
governing obstruction, unfair play, repeated infringements, dangerous play and misconduct
Free-kick: Awarded against a team for an infringement or to a team for a mark.
G
Goal: The ball is place-kicked or drop-kicked over the opponents’ cross-bar from the field of
play.
Goal line: The line at either end (and not part) of the field of play.
The ground: The total area shown in the ground diagram in Law 1
H
Half-time: The interval between the two halves of the game.
Hand-off: A permitted action, taken by a ball-carrier to fend off an opponent, using the palm
of the hand.
Hindmost foot: The foot nearest a team's own goal line in a scrum, ruck or maul
Holding the ball: Being in possession of the ball in the hand or hands or in the arm or arms.
I
In-goal: The area between the goal line and dead-ball line, and between the touch-m-goal
lines. It includes the goal line but nor the dead-ball line or the touch-m-goal lines. The goal
posts and their surrounding padding are located in in-goal.
Infield: Within the playing area, away from the touchlines.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2018 18
WORLD
RUGBY.
J
Jersey: A shirt worn on the upper half of the body and which is not attached to shorts or
underwear
K
Kick: An act made by intentionally hitting the ball with any pari of the leg or foot, except the
heel, from the toe to the knee but not including the knee. A kick must move the ball a visible
distance out of the hand, or along the ground
Kick-off: The method of starting each half of a match and at the beginning of each period of
extra-time with a drop-kick
Kicked directly into touch: The ball is kicked into touch without first landing on the playing
area or touching a player or the referee.
Kicking tee: Any device approved by the match organiser to support the ball when taking a
place-kick
Knock-on: When a player loses possession of the ball and it goes forward, or when a player
hits the ball forward with the hand or arm, or when the ball hits the hand or arm and goes
forward, and the ball touches the ground or another player before the original player can
catch it.
L
Line of touch: See mark of touch
Line through the mark or place: Unless stated otherwise, a line parallel to the touchline
Lineout: A lineout is a set piece consisting of a line of at least two players from each team
waiting to receive a throw from touch.
Lineout players: The players in either line of a lineout.
M
Mark: A method of suspending play and winning a free-kick by directly catching an
opponent’s kick in the catcher's own 22 or in m-goal and shouting “mark".
Mark of touch: An imaginary line in the field of play at right angles to the touchline 1 hrough
the place where the ball is thrown in. The mark of touch cannot be within five metres of a goa.
line.
Match officials: Those who control the game, usually consisting of a referee and two
assistant referees or touch judges but may also include a television match official and, in
sevens, two in-goal judges.
19 WORLD RUGBY
DEFINITIONS
WORLD
RUGBY,
Match organiser: Administrative body responsible for the match which may be World Rugby,
a union, a group of unions or any organisation approved by a union or World Rugby.
Maul: A phase of play consisting of a ball-carrier and at least one player from each team,
bound together and on their feet.
N
Near: Within one metre
o
Obstruction: When a player attempting to play is illegally impeded and prevented from
doing so.
Off feet: Players are off their feet when any other part of the body is supported by the
ground or players on the ground.
Offside: A positional offence meaning a player can take no part in the game without being
liable to sanction.
On feet: Players are on their feet if no other part of their body is supported by the ground or
players on the ground.
Open play: The period after a kick-off, restart kick, free kick, penalty or set piece and before
the next phase, or the period between phases of play, excluding when the ball is dead.
p
Participating players at a lineout: These consist of lineout players, one receiver from each
team (if present), the player who throws in and an immediate opponent.
Pass: A player throws or hands the ball to another player
Penalty: Awarded against a team for a serious infringement.
Penalty try: Awarded when, in the opinion of the referee, a try probably would have been
scored (or scored in a more advantageous position) if not for an act of foul play by an
opponent
Phase of play: Scrum, lineout, ruck or maul.
Place-kick: The ball is kicked after it has been placed on the ground (or on an approved
kicking tee) for that purpose
Placer: A player holding the ball for a team-mate to place kick.
Plane of touch: The vertical space rising immediately above the touch line or touch-in-goal
line.
Played: The ball is played when it is intentionally touched by a player
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2018 20
WORLD
RUGBY,
DEFINITIONS
Player grounded: See “off feet".
Players’ clothing: Anything players wear which, to be legal, must conform to World Rugby
Regulation 12.
Playing area: The field of play plus the m-goal areas. The touch lines, touch-in-goal lines and
dead-ball lines are not part of the playing area
Playing enclosure: The playing area plus a space around it, which is known as the perimeter
area.
Playing time: Actual time, excluding time lost for stoppages (see actual I ime)
Possession: An individual or team in control of the ball or who are attempting to bring it
under control
Punt: A player intentionally drops the ball and kicks it before it touches the ground
0
Quick-throw: A throw from touch taken before the lineout is formed. The ball is thrown in by
the team that would have thrown the ball into the lineout.
R
Receiver: The player in a position to receive the ball if it is knocked or passed back from a
lineout
Red card: The card shown by the referee to a player to indicate that the player has been
permanently excluded from the match.
Replacement: A player who replaces a team-mate because of injury or for tactical reasons.
Restart kick: The method of restarting play with a drop-kick after a score or a touch-down
Ruck: A phase of play where one or more players from each team, who are on their feet and
in physical contact, close around the ball, which is on the ground
Rucking: Legally using one’s feet to try to win or keep possession of the ball in a ruck.
s
Sanction: The method by which the game is restarted following an infringement or
stoppage
Scrum: A set piece, normally consisting of eight players from each team bound together in
formation
Scrum zone: The area in the field of play where a scrum may take place.
Sent off: A player is shown a red card and is permanently excluded from the match.
21 WORLD RUGBY
DEFINITIONS
WORLD
RUGBY,
Shorts: Trousers that start at the waist and end above the knees, have an elasticated waist
band and/or draw string, and are not attached to the jersey or underwear
Sin-bin: The designated place outside the playing area within which a temporarily suspended
player must remain.
Stiff-arm tackle: An illegal tackle whereby a player uses a stiff arm to strike the ball-carrier.
T
Tackle: The method of holding a ball-carrier and bringing that player to ground.
Tackled player: A ball-carrier who is held and taken to ground by a tackler or tacklers.
Tackler: An opposition player who holds the tackled player and goes to ground.
Team: A group of players, usually 15. who start the match plus any authorised replacements.
Team-mate: Another player of the same team.
Ten: orarily suspended: Excluded from the game for a specified period of playing time,
usually 10 minutes.
Throw forward: When a player throws or passes the ball forward i.e. if the arms of the player
passing the ball move forward.
Touch: The area alongside the field of play that includes the touchlines and beyond
Touch-in-goal: The area alongside the in goal area that includes the touch-in-goal lines and
beyond
u
Uncontested scrum: A scrum in which the team throwing-in gams possession without
contest, with neither team being allowed to push from the mark.
Underwear: An undergarment, that covers the body from the waist, having short or no legs,
ending above the knees, and is worn next to the skin or under clothing, and is not attached to
the jersey or shorts.
Union: A body, approved by World Rugby, responsible for the organising and playing of
games within a specific geographical area
Y
Yellow card: The card shown by the referee to a player to indicate that the player has been
cautioned and temporarily suspended.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2018 22
Laws of the
game
WORLD
RUGBY
LAW 1 The ground
WORLD
RUGBY.
The ground
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2018 2 A
1)
LAW 1 The ground
WORLD
RUGBY,
1.	The playing surface must be safe
2.	The permitted surface types are grass, sand, clay, snow or artificial turf (conforming to
World Rugby Regulation 22)
3. The dimensions of the playing area shown in the ground diagram.
Dimensions	Field of play length	In-goal length	-	
Maximum (metres)	100	22	70	
Minimum (metres)	9^	6	68	
a.	The playing area is rectangular in shape.
b.	Any variations to these dimensions must be approved by the relevant union for
domestic competitions or World Rugby for international marches

Field of play
111 Hi 11
num
IIIIIII
llllill
IHUll
iiiiiii
Playing area Playing enclosure Perimeter area
III Hill
i-J
011111
In-goal
iiiim	u min
	mm
llllill!	llllii iiiiiii
22 Scrum zone
25 WORLD RUGBY
LAW1 The ground
(I)
WORLD
RUGBY.
c.	Where the length of the field of play is less than 100 metres, the distance
between the 10-metre lines and 22-metre lines is reduced accordingly.
d.	Where the width of the playing area is less than 70 metres, the distance between
the 15-metre lines is reduced accordingly.
e.	The perimeter area should not be less than five metres wide where practicable
b.	There are solid lines configured as shown in the ground diagram. The solid lines are on:
a.	The dead-ball lines and touch-m-goal lines.
b.	The goal lines.
c.	The 22-metre lines
d.	The half-way line
e.	The touchlines.
5.	There are dash lines configured as shown in the ground diagram. Each dash within a
dash line is five metres in length. There are dash lines:
a. Five metres from, and parallel to each touchline.
b. 1 5 metres from, and parallel to, each touchline.
c.	10 metres from, and parallel to, each side of the half-way line.
d.	Five metres from, and parallel to, each goal line.
6.	There is one line 0 5 metres long that intersects the centre of the half-way line.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2018 26
WORLD
RUGBY,
LAW 1 The ground
GOAL POSTS AND CROSSBAR
7.	When padding is attached to the goal posts the distance from the goal line to the
external edge of the padding must not exceed 0.3 metres.
FLAG POSTS
8.	There are 1 flag posts with flags, each with a minimum height of 1.2 metres
9.	One flag post is positioned at each intersection of the touch-m-goal lines and the goal
lines and one at each intersection of the touch-m-goal lines and the dead-ball lines
(eight flag posts in total).
10.	One flag post is positioned in line with rhe 22-metre line and the half-way line on each
side of the pitch, two metres outside the touchlines and within the playing enclosure (six
flag posts in total).
OBJECTIONS TO THE GROUND
11.	Teams must inform the referee of any objections before the match starts.
12.	The referee will attempt to resolve the issues and will not start a match if any part of the
ground is considered to be unsafe.
27 WORLD RUGBY
(I)
WORLD
RUGBY,
LAW 2 Ball
1.	The ball is oval and made of four panels.
2.	It has dimensions as shown here:
3.	It weighs ^10-^60 grams.
Smaller balls may be used for matches between young players
5.	The ball is made of leather or a suitable synthetic material. It may be treated to make it
water resistant and easier to grip.
6.	Its air pressure at the start of play is 65.71 -68.75 kilopascals, 0.67-0.70 kilograms per
square centimetre or 9.5-10.0 pounds per square inch.
7.	Spare balls may be available during a match.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2018 28
WORLD
RUGBY.
LAW 3 Team
NUMBERS
1. Each team has no more than 15 players in the playing area during play.
2. A match organiser may authorise matches to be played with fewer than 1 5 players in
each team.
3.	A team may make an objection to the referee about the number of players in their
opponents’ team If a team has too many players, the referee orders the captain of that
team to reduce the number appropriately The score at the time of the objection remains
unaltered Sanction: Penalty.
A. For international matches, a union may nominate up to eight replacements.
5.	For other matches, the match organiser decides how many replacements may be
nominated, up to a maximum of eight.
6.	Replacements are made only when the ball is dead and only with the permission of the
referee
7.	If a player re-joins or a replacement joins the match without the referee’s permission and
the referee believes the player did so to gam an advantage, the player is guilty of
misconduct. Sanction: Penalty.
8.	The table indicates the minimum number of front-row players by squad size and the
minimum replacement obligations A match organiser may, having taken player welfare
into account, amend the minimum number of front-row players in the squad and the
minimum replacement obligations at defined levels of the game.
Squad size	Minimum number of front row players in the squad	Must be able to replace at the first time of asking
15 or fewer	3	
16,17 or 18	A	Either a prop or a hooker
19,20,21 or 22	5	Both a prop and a hooker
23	6	Loose-head prop, tight-head prop and hooker
29 WORLD RUGBY
0) 0
WORLD
RUGBY.
LAW 3 Team
9.	Where the match organiser has determined squad sizes of 2 3 and a team is able to
nominate only two front-row replacements, then that team may nominate only 22
players in their squad
10.	Prior to the match, each team must advise the appropriate match official of their front-
row players and possible front-row replacements and which position(s) in the front row
they can play Only these players may play in rhe front row when the scrum is contested
and only in their designated position(s).
11.	A replacement front row player may start the match in another position.
12.	II is a team’s responsibility to ensure that all front-row players and front-row
replacements are suitably trained and experienced.
SCRUMS
13.	Scrums will become uncontested if either team cannot field a suitably trained front row
or if the referee so orders
1 A match organiser may stipulate the conditions under which a game may start with
uncontested scrums.
15.	When a front-row player leaves the playing area, whether through injury or temporary or
permanent suspension, the referee enquires at that time whether the team can
continue with contested scrums. If the referee is informed that the team will not be able
to contest the scrum, then the referee orders uncontested scrums. If the player returns
or another front-row player comes on, then contested scrums may resume
16.	Ina squad of 23 players or at the discretion of rhe match organiser, a player whose
departure has caused the referee to order uncontested scrums cannot be replaced.
17.	Only when no replacement front-row player is available is any other player permitted to
play in the front row.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2018 30
WORLD
RUGBY,
LAW 3 Team
18.	If a front-row player is temporarily suspended, and the team cannot continue with
contested scrums with players already on the field, then the team nominates another
player to leave the playing area to enable an available front-row player to come on. The
nominated player may not return until the period of suspension ends, or to act as a
replacement.
19.	If a front-row player is sent off, and the team cannot continue with contested scrums
with players already on the field, then the team nominates another player to leave the
playing area to enable an available front-row player to come on. The nominated player
may act as a replacement.
PERMANENT REPLACEMENT
20.	A player may be replaced if injured An injured player may not return once replaced
21.	A player is deemed to be injured if
a.	At national representative level, it is the opinion of a doctor that it would be
inadvisable for the player to continue
b.	In other matches, where a match organiser has given explicit permission, it is the
opinion of a medically trained person that it would be inadvisable for the player to
continue If none is present, that player may be replaced if the referee agrees.
c.	The referee decides (with or without medical advice) that it would be inadvisable
for the player to continue. The referee orders that player to leave the playing area.
22.	The referee may also order an injured player to leave the playing area to be medically
examined.
PERMANENT REPLACEMENT - RECOGNISE AND REMOVE
23.	If. at any point during a match, a player is concussed or has suspected concussion, that
player must be immediately and permanently removed from the playing area. This
process is known as “Recognise and Remove".
51 WORLD RUGBY
LAW 3 Team
WORLD
RUGBY,
TEMPORARY REPLACEMENT - BLOOD INJURY
29.	When a player has a blood injury, that player leaves the field of play and may be
temporarily replaced The injured player returns to play as soon as the bleeding has been
controlled and/or covered. If the player Is not available to return to the field of play within
15 minutes (actual time) of leaving the playing area, the replacement becomes
permanent.
25.	In international matches, the match-day doctor decides whether an injury is a blood
injury necessitating a temporary replacement.
kCEMENT - HEAD INJURY ASSESSMENT (HIA)
26.	In elite aduit matches, which have been approved in advance by World Rugby (pursuant
to Regulations 10.19 and 10.1.5) for use of the HIA process, a player who requires an
HIA:
a.	Leaves lhe field of play; and
b.	Is temporarily replaced (even if all the replacements have been used) If the playe1
is not available to return to the field of play after 10 minutes (actual time) of
leaving the playing area, the replacement becomes permanent.
TEMPORARY REPLACEMENTS - ALL
27.	A temporary replacement can be temporarily replaced (even if all replacements have
been used)
28.	If a temporary replacement is injured, that player may also be replaced.
29.	If a temporary replacement is sent off, the originally replaced player is not permitted to
return to the playing area, except to comply Law 3.18 or 3.19, and only if the player has
been medically cleared to do so and does so within the required time of leaving the field
of play.
30.	If the temporary replacement is temporarily suspended, the replaced player is not
permitted to return to the field of play until after the period of suspension, except to
comply with Law 3.18 or 3.19, and only if the player has been medically cleared to do so
and does so within the required time of leaving the field of play.
31.	If the time allowed for a temporary replacement elapses during half-time, the
replacement shall become permanent unless the replaced player returns to the field of
play immediately at the start of the second half.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2018 32
WORLD
RUGBY.
LAW 3 Team
TACTICAL REPLACEMENTS JOINING THE MATCH
32.	Tactically replaced players may return to play only when replacing:
a.	An injured front-row player
b.	A player with a blood injury.
c.	A player undertaking an HIA.
d.	A player who has just been injured as a result of foul play (as verified by the match
officials).
e.	The nominated player described in Law 3 18 or 3.19
ROLLING REPLACEMENTS
33.	A match organiser may implement rolling tactical replacements at defined levels of the
game within its jurisdiction. The number of interchanges must not exceed 12. The
administration and rules relating to rolling replacements are the responsibility of the
match organiser.
33 WORLD RUGBY
0)
WORLD
RUGBY,
LAW b Players’ clothing
1.	All items of clothing must comply with World Rugby Regulation 12.
2.	A player wears a jersey, shorts and underwear, socks and boots. The sleeve of a jersey
must extend at least half-way from the shoulder point to the elbow.
3.	Additional items are permitted. These are:
a.	Washable supports made of elasticated or compressible materials.
b.	Shin guards.
c.	Ankle supports worn under socks, not extending higher than one third of the
length of the shin and, if rigid, from material other than metal.
d.	Mitts (fingerless gloves).
e.	Shoulderpads.
f.	Mouth guard or dental protector.
g.	Headgear.
h.	Bandages, dressings, thin tape or other similar material.
i.	Goggles (global law trial)
j.	Studs, including those of moulded rubber, on the soles of their boots.
Lt. In addition, women may wear:
a.	Chest pads.
b.	Cotton blend long tights, with single inside leg seam under their shorts and socks.
c.	Headscarves, providing they do nor cause a danger to the wearer or other players.
5.	A player may not wear:
a.	Any item contaminated by blood.
b.	Any sharp or abrasive item.
c.	Any items containing buckles, clips, rings, hinges, zippers, screws, bolts or rigid
material or projection not otherwise permitted under this law
d.	Jewellery.
e.	Gloves.
f.	Shorts with padding sewn into them.
g.	Any item that is normally permitted in law but, in the referee's opinion, is liable to
cause injury.
h.	Communication devices.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2018 3^
WORLD
RUGBY,
LAW b Players’ clothing
6.	The referee has the power to decide at any time that part of a player’s clothing is
dangerous or illegal. In this case, the referee must order the player to remove the item.
The player must not take part in the match until the item is removed or rendered
harmless
7.	If, at an inspection before the match, a match official tells a player that an item banned
under this law is being worn and the player is subsequently found to be wearing that
item on the playing area, that player is sent off for misconduct. Sanction: Penalty
8.	The referee must not allow any player to leave the playing area to change items of
clothing, unless they are bloodstained
World Rugby Regulation 12 can be found at: http://playerwelfare.worldr. gb .org/reg12
35 WORLD RUGBY
LAW 5 Time
III
WORLD
RUGBY,
1.	A match lasts no longer than 80 minutes (split into two halves, each of not more than AO
minutes plus time lost), unless the match organiser has authorised the playing of extra-
time in a drawn match within a knock-out competition.
2.	Half-time consists of an interval not exceeding 15 minutes as decided by the match
organiser. During this time, the teams and match officials may leave the playing
enclosure.
3.	In non-mternational matches, the match organiser may decide to reduce the length of a
match. If the match organiser does not decide, the teams agree on the length of a
match. If they cannot agree, the referee decides.
A. The referee keeps the time but may delegate the duty to either or both assistant
referees and/or an official time-keeper, in which case the referee signals to them any
sioppage. In matches without an official time-keeper, if the referee is in doubt as to the
correct time, the referee consults either or both the assistant referees and may consult
others but only if the assistant referees cannot help.
5.	The referee may stop play and allow time for.
a.	Player injury for up to one minute. If a player is seriously injured, the referee has
the discretion to allow more than one minute for that player to be removed from
the playing area.
b.	Consultation with other officials.
6.	Once the ball is already dead, the referee may allow time for.
a.	Replacement of players.
b.	Replacing or repairing players’ clothing.
c.	Re-tying a boot-lace.
d.	Retrieving the ball.
7.	A half ends when the ball becomes dead after time has expired unless:
a.	A scrum, lineout or restart kick following a try or touchdown, awarded before time
expired, has not been completed and the ball has not returned to open play. This
includes when the scrum, lineout or restart kick is taken incorrectly.
b.	The referee awards a free-kick or penalty.
c.	A try has been scored, in which case the referee allows time for the conversion to
be taken.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2018 36
WORLD
RUGBY,
LAW 5 Time
8.	A team scoring a try may attempt the conversion or may decline it.
a.	The decision to decline the conversion must be relayed by the try scorer to the
referee by saying “no kick" after the try is awarded.
b.	Provided the conversion is attempted or declined before time elapses, the referee
will award a restart kick.
c.	If the conversion is attempted, time is taken from the strike on the ball
9.	When weather conditions are exceptionally hot and/or humid, rhe referee has the
discretion to allow for a water break. This one-minute break should be taken midway
through the half, after a score or when the ball is dead near the half-way line.
10.	The referee has the power to end or suspend the match at any time if the referee
believes that it would be unsafe to continue.
37 WORLD RUGBY
LAW 6 Match officials
(I)
WORLD
RUGBY,
PRINCIPLE
Every match is under the control of match officials who consist of the referee and two touch
judges or assistant referees. Additional persons, as authorised by the match organisers may
include the reserve referee and/or reserve assistant referee, the television match official, the
time-keeper, the match doctor, the team doctors, the non-playing members of the teams and
rhe ball persons.
Assistant referees and touch judges are responsible for signalling touch, touch in-goal and the
success or otherwise of kicks at goal. In addition, assistant referees provide assistance as the
referee directs, including the reporting of foul play
APP^ME|yfo.THE REFEREE
1. The referee is appointed by the match organiser. If no referee has been appointed, the
two teams agree upon a referee. If they cannot agree, the home team appoints a
referee.
2.	If the referee is unable to complete the match, the referee’s replacement is appointed
according to the instructions of the match organiser. If the match organiser has given no
instructions, the referee appoints a replacement. If the referee cannot do so, the home
team appoints a replacement.
DUTIES OF THE REFEREE BEFORE THE MATCH
3.	The referee organises the toss. One of the captains tosses a com and the other captain
calls. The winner of the toss decides whether to kick off or to choose an end If the
winner of rhe toss decides to choose an end, the opponents must kick off and vice versa.
A. The match officials must inspect the players’ clothing and studs for conformity to Law A.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2018 38
WORLD
RUGBY.
LAW 6 Match officials
DUTIES OF THE REFEREE DURING A MATCH
5.	Within the playing enclosure:
a.	The referee is the sole judge of fact and of law during a match The referee must
apply the laws of the game fairly in every match
b.	The referee keeps the time. However, the match organiser may appoint a time-
keeper who will signify the end of each half.
c.	The referee keeps the score.
6.	The referee permits access to the playing area for players and replacements, when it is
safe to do so.
7.	The referee gives permission for players to leave the playing area
THE WHISTLE
8.	The referee carries a whistle and blows it:
a.	To indicate the beginning and the end of each half of the match
b.	To stop play The referee has the power to stop play at any time.
c.	To indicate a score or a touch down
d.	To caution or send off an offender and a second time when the penalty or penalty
try is awarded.
e.	When the ball becomes dead, other than after a failed conversion kick.
f.	When the ball becomes unplayable
g.	When a penalty, free-kick or scrum is awarded.
h.	When it would be dangerous to let play continue or when it is suspected that a
player is seriously injured.
39 WORLD RUGBY
LAW 6 Match officials
11)
WORLD
RUGBY,
THE BALL BECOMES DEAD
9.	The referee will deem the ball to be dead when.
a.	The ball is in touch or touch in-goal.
b.	The ball is grounded in m-goal
c.	A conversion has been attempted.
d.	A try, penalty or dropped goal has been scored.
e.	The ball or ball-carrier touches the dead-ball line or anything beyond it.
f.	The ball hits anything above the playing area.
•CARRIER TOUCHES THE REFEREE OR NON-PLAYER
10.	If the ball oi the ball-carrier touches the referee or other non-player and neither team
gains an advantage, play continues. If either team gams an advantage in the field of play,
a scrum is awarded to the team that last played the ball
11.	If the ball-carrier touches the referee or other non-player in in-goal and either team gains
an advantage:
a.	If the ball is in possession of an attacking player, the referee awards a try where the
contact took place.
b.	If the ball is in possession of a defending player, the referee awards a touch down
where the contact took place.
12.	If the ball is touched by the referee or other non-player in m-goal, the referee judges
what would have happened next and awards a try or a touch down at the place where
the contact took place
INTERACTION BETWEEN THE REFEREE AND ASSISTANT REFEREES / TOUCH JUDGES
13.	The referee may consult with assistant referees about matters relating to their duties,
the law relating to foul play and timekeeping, and may request assistance related to
other aspects of the referee’s duties.
1 U. The referee may alter a decision after a touch judge or an assistant referee has raised the
flag to signal touch, touch-in-goal or an assistant referee has signalled foul play.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2018 AO
LAW 6 Match officials
1)
WORLD
RUGBY,
TELEVISION MATCH OFFICIAL / GLOBAL LAW TRIAL
15.	A match organiser may appoint a television match official (TMO), who uses
technological devices to clarify situations relating to:
a.	The grounding of the ball in m-goal
b.	Touch or touch-in-goal in the act of grounding the ball or the ball being made
dead.
c.	Where there is doubt as to whether a kick at goal has been successful.
d.	Where match officials believe an infringement may have occurred in the playing
area leading to a try or preventing a try.
e.	Foul play, including sanctions
16.	Any of the match officials, including the TMO, may recommend a review by the TMO
The reviews will take place in accordance with the TMO protocol which is available at
http:/Zlaws.worldrugby.org
DUTIES OF THE REFEREE AFTER A MATCH
17.	The referee communicates the score to the teams and to the match organiser.
18.	If a player was sent off, the referee gives the match organiser a written report on the foul
play infringement as soon as possible
APPOINTING AND CONTROLLING ASSISTANT REFEREES AND TOUCH JUDGES
19.	There are two assistant referees or two touch judges for every match. Unless they have
been appointed by or under the authority of the match organiser, each team provides a
touch judge
20.	The match organiser may nominate a person to act as a replacement for the assistant
referees or touch judges. This person is called the reserve touch judge or reserve
assistant referee and is situated in the perimeter area.
21.	The referee has control over the assistant referees or touch judges. The referee may tell
them what their duties are and may overrule their decisions. If a touch judge is
unsatisfactory, the referee may ask that the touch judge be replaced. If the referee
believes a touch judge is guilry of misconduct, the referee has the power to send the
touch judge off and make a report to the match organiser.
Al WORLD RUGBY
LAW 6 Match officials
(D
WORLD
RUGBY.
DURING THE MATCH
22.	There is one assistant referee or touch judge on each side of the ground. The assistant
referee or touch judge remains in touch except when judging a kick at goal. When
judging a kick at goal they stand in m-goal, behind the goal posts.
23.	An assistant referee may enter the playing area to report foul play. This may be done
only at the next stoppage in play and when the referee allows.
2A. Each assistant referee or touch judge carries a flag or something similar with which to
signal decisions.
25.	Signalling the result of kicks at goal: One assistant referee or touch judge stands at or
behind each goal post. If the ball goes over the crossbar and between the posts, they
raise the flags to indicate a goal
26.	Signalling touch.
a.	When the ball or the ball-carrier has gone into touch or touch-in-goal, the assistant
referee or touch judge holds up the flag.
b.	The assistant referee or touch judge stands at the place of the throw and points to
the team entitled to throw in
c.	When the ball is thrown in, the assistant referee or touch judge lowers the flag,
with the following exceptions:
i.	When the player throwing in puts any part of either foot in the field of play.
ii.	When the team not entitled to throw in has done so.
iii.	When, at a quick throw, the ball that went into touch is replaced by another
ball or, after it went into touch, it was touched by anyone except the ball-
carrier who took it into touch or the player who takes the throw
d.	It is for the referee, and not rhe assistant referee or touch judge, to decide whether
rhe ball was thrown in from the correct place.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2018 Z|2
WORLD
RUGBY,
LAW 6 Match officials
27.	Signalling foul play
a.	A match organiser may give authority to the assistant referee to signal for foul
play.
b.	An assistant referee signals that foul play or misconduct has been seen by holding
the flag horizontally and pointing infield at right angles to the touchline
c.	If an assistant referee signals foul play, the assistant referee stays in touch and
continues to carry out all the other duties until the next stoppage in play
d.	At the invitation of the referee the assistant referee may then enter the playing
area to report the offence to the referee. The referee will then take appropriate
action.
e.	If an assistant referee’s verbal report to the referee leads to a player being sent off.
the assistant referee submits a written report about the incident 10 the referee as
soon as possible after the match and the referee provides it to the match
organiser.
ADDITIONAL PERSONS
28.	Medically trained persons (only qualified doctors or physiotherapists) may enter the
playing area to attend to injured players any time it is safe to do so.
29.	The following may enter the playing area without rhe referee’s permission, provided they
do not interfere with play or make any comments to the match officials
a.	Water-carriers during a stoppage in play for an injury to a player or when a try has
been scored
b.	A person carrying a kicking tee after a team has indicated they intend to kick at
goal or a try has been scored
c.	The coaches attending to their teams ar half-time.
30.	The management of replacements may be delegated to sideline managers appointed
by the match organiser Information relating to sideline management can be found at:
http://ofriciating.worldrugby.org
WORLD RUGBY
LAW 7 Advantage
WORLD
RUGBY,
PRINCIPLE
If a ream gams an advantage following an infringement by their opponents, the referee may
allow play to continue in an effort to keep the game flowing
1.	Advantage-
a.	May be tactical. The non-offending team is free to play the ball as they wish.
b.	May be territorial. Play has moved towards the offending team’s dead-ball line.
c.	May be a combination of tactical and territorial.
d.	Must be clear and real. A mere opportunity to gain an advantage is not sufficient.
2.	Advantage ends when:
a.	The referee deems that the non-offending team has gained an advantage. The
referee allows play to continue; or
b.	The i cferee deems that the non-offending team is unlikely to gain an advantage.
The referee stops the game and applies the sanction for the infringement from
which advantage was being played; or
c.	The non-offending team commits an infringement before they have gained an
advantage. The referee stops the game and applies the sanction for the first
infringement. If either or both infringements are for foul play, the referee applies
the appropriate sanction(s) for the offence(s); or
d.	The offending team commits a second infringement from which no advantage
can be gained. The referee stops play and applies the appropriate and more
advantageous sanction (either tactically or territorially).
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2018 kb
WORLD
RUGBY.
LAW 7 Advantage
3.	Advantage must not be applied and the referee must blow the whistle immediately
when:
a. The ball or a player in possession of the ball, touches the referee and an
advantage is gained by either side.
b. The ball comes out of either end of the tunnel at a scrum
c.	A scrum is wheeled through more than 90 degrees.
d.	A player in a scrum is lifted or forced upwards so that the player is no longer in
contact with the ground.
e.	A quick throw, free-kick or penalty is taken incorrectly.
f.	The ball is made dead.
g.	It would be dangerous to let play continue.
h.	It is suspected that a player is seriously injured
A5 WORLD RUGBY
LAW 8 Scoring
WORLD
RUGBY,
1. Methods and points value of scoring:
a. Try or penalty try Five points.
b. Conversion Two points.
c. Penalty goal. Three points.
d. Dropped goal Three points.
2.	A try is scored when an attacking player
a. Is first to ground the ball in the opponents’ in-goal, against the opponents’ goal
post or its surrounding padding.
b. Is first to ground the ball when a scrum, ruck or maul reaches the goal line.
c.	With the ball is rackled short of the goal line and the player’s momentum carries
them in a continuous movement along the ground into the opponents’ in-goal,
and the player is first to ground the ball
d.	Is tackled near to the opponents’ goal line and the player immediately reaches out
and grounds the ball
e.	Who is in touch or touch-m-goal, grounds the ball in the opponents’ in-goal
provided the player is not holding the ball.
Grounding the ball
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2018
RUGBY,
LAW 8 Scoring
Scoring a try - grounded against the goal post
Scoring a try - when a scrum
reaches the goal line
Scoring a try-a player in touch-in-goal
who is not holding the ball
^7 WORLD RUGBY
LAW 8 Scoring
WORLD
RUGBY,
PENALTY TRY
3.	A penalty try is awarded between the goal posts if foul play by the opposing team
prevents a probable try from being scored, or scored in a more advantageous position. A
player guilty of this must be cautioned and temporarily suspended or sent off.
LTY GOAL AND DROPPED GOAL
A. For any goal to be successful, the ball must be kicked over the crossbar and between the
goal posts without first touching a team-mate or the ground.
5.	If the ball goes over the crossbar and over the height of the goal posts, the kick is
successful if i leemed that the ball would have gone between the goal posts had they
been taller.
6.	If the ball has crossed the crossbar and the wind blows it back into the field of play, the
score stands.
7.	When a try or penalty try is scored, it gives that team the right to attempt a conversion,
which may be a place-kick or drop-kick.
8.	The kicker:
a.	Uses the ball that was in play unless it is defective.
b.	Takes the kick in the field of play on a line through the place where the try was
awarded, parallel to the touchlines.
c.	Places rhe ball directly on the ground or on sand, sawdust, or a kicking tee. The
kicker may be assisted by a placer Nothing else may be used to assist the kicker.
d.	Takes the kick within 90 seconds (playing time) from the time the try was
awarded, even if the ball rolls over and has to be placed again.
Sanction: Kick is disallowed.
9.	The kicker’s team, apart from a team-mate holding the ball, stay behind the ball when it
is kicked and do nothing to mislead their opponents into charging too soon
Sanction: Kick is disallowed.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2018 A8
11)
WORLD
RUGBY.
LAW 8 Scoring
10.	If the ball falls over before the kicker begins the approach to kick, the referee permits the
kicker to replace it While the ball is replaced, the opponents remain behind their goal
line.
11.	If the ball falls over after the kicker begins the approach to kick, the kicker may then kick
or attempt a dropped goal
12.	If the ball falls over and rolls away from the line through the place where the try was
awarded and the kicker then kicks the ball over the crossbar, the conversion is successful
15.	If the ball falls over and rolls into touch after the kicker begins the approach to kick, the
kick is disallowed
THE OPPOSING TEAM AT A CONVERSION
L JL
1 *4. All opposing players retire to their goal line and do not overstep that line until the kicker
begins the approach to kick. When the kicker does this, they may charge or jump to
prevent a goal but must not be physically supported by other players in these actions
15.	The team must not shout during a conversion attempt.
Sanction: if the opposing team at a conversion attempt infringes but the kick is successful.
the goal stands If the kick is unsuccessful, the kicker retakes the conversion and the opposing
team is not allowed to charge. When another kick is allowed, the kicker may repeat all the
preparations. The kicker may change the type of kick.
16.	If the ball falls over after the kicker begins the approach to kick, the opponents may
continue to charge
17.	If the opposition touches the ball and the kick is successful, the goal stands.
*<9 WORLD RUGBY
LAW 8 Scoring
0E
WORLD
RUGBY,
PENALTY GOAL
18.	A penalty goal can be scored only from a penalty.
19.	The kicking team must indicate their intention to kick for goal without delay.
20.	If the team indicates to the referee the intention to kick at goal, they must kick at goal.
The intention to kick can be communicated to the referee or signalled by the arrival of
the kicking tee or sand, or when the player makes a mark on the ground.
21.	The kick must be taken within 60 seconds (playing time) from the time the team
indicated their intention to do so, even if the ball rolls over and has to be placed again
Sanction: Kick is disallowed and a scrum is awarded.
22.	If the kicker indicates to the referee the intent to kick ar goal, the opposing team must
sland still with their hands by their sides from the time the kicker starts to approach to
kick until the ball is kicked.
23.	If the kicker has not indicated an intention to kick at goal but takes a drop-kick and scores
a goal, the goal stands.
2A. The kicker places the ball directly on the ground or on sand, sawdust, or a kicking tee. The
kicker may be assisted by a placer. Nothing else may be used to assist the kicker
Sanction: Scrum.
25.	Any player who intentionally touches the ball in an attempt to prevent a penalty goal
being scored is illegally touching the ball
26.	A defending player must not shout during a penalty kick at goal
27.	If the opposing team infringes while the kick is being taken but the kick at goal is
successful, the goal stands and a further penalty is not awarded. If the kick is
unsuccessful, the non-offending team is awarded a penalty 10 metres in front of the
original mark Sanction: Penalty.
DROPPED GOAL
28.	A player scores a dropped goal by kicking a goal from a drop-kick in open play.
29.	The team awarded a free-kick (including where they opt for a scrum or lineout instead)
cannot score a dropped goal until the ball next becomes dead or until an opponent has
played the ball, has touched it or has tackled the ball-carrier Any such kick is deemed to
be unsuccessful and play continues.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2018 50
WORLD
RUGBY,
LAW 9 Foul play
PRINCIPLE
A player who commits foul play must either be cautioned or temporarily suspended or sent
off.
OBSTRUCTION
1.	When a player and an opponent are running for the ball, neither player may charge or
push the other except shoulder-to-shoulder.
2.	An offside player must not intentionally obstruct an opponent or interfere with play
3.	A player must not intentionally prevent an opponent from tackling or al tempting to
tackle the ball-carrier.
A. A player must not intentionally prevent an opponent from having the opportunity to play
the ball, other than by competing for possession
5.	A ball-carrier must not intentionally run into an off-side team-mate to obstruct the
opposition.
6.	A player must not obstruct, or in any way interfere with an opponent while the ball is
dead
Sanction: Penalty
UNFAIRPLAY
7.	A player must not
a.	Intentionally infringe any law of the game.
b.	Intentionally knock, place, push or throw the ball with arm or hand from the
playing area
c.	Do anything that may lead the match officials to consider that an opponent has
committed an infringement.
Sanction: Penalty.
d. Waste time. Sanction: Free-kick.
51 WORLD RUGBY
LAW 9 Foul play
(I)
WORLD
RUGBY,
REPEATED INFRINGEMENTS
8.	A team must not repeatedly commit the same offence.
9.	A player must not repeatedly infringe the laws.
Sanction: Penalty
10.	When different players of the same team repeatedly commit the same offence, the
referee gives a general caution to the team and if they then repeat the offence, the
referee temporarily suspends the guilty player(s).
DANGE
11.	Players must not co anything that is reckless or dangerous to others
12.	A player must not physically or verbally abuse anyone. Physical abuse includes, but is not
limited to. biting, punching, contact with the eye or eye area, striking with any part of the
arm (including stiff-arm tackles), shoulder, head or knee(s), stamping, trampling,
tripping or kicking.
13.	A player must not tackle an opponent early, late or dangerously Dangerous tackling
includes, but is not limited to, tackling or attempting to tackle an opponent above the
line of the shoulders even if the tackle starts below the line of the shoulders.
1 k. A player must not tackle an opponent who is not in possession of the ball.
15. Except in a scrum, ruck or maul, a player who is not in possession of the ball must not
hold, push, charge or obstruct an opponent not in possession of the ball.
16.	A player must not charge or knock down an opponent carrying the ball without
attempting to grasp that player
17.	A player must not tackle, charge, pull, push or grasp an opponent whose feet are off the
ground
18.	A player must not lift an opponent off the ground and drop or drive that player so that
their head and/or upper body make contact with the ground.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2018 52
WORLD
RUGBY,
LAW 9 Foul play
19.	Dangerous play in a scrum
a.	The front row of a scrum must not form at a distance from its opponents and rush
against them
b.	A front-row player must not pull an opponent
c.	A front-row player must not intentionally lift an opponent off their feet or force the
opponent upwards out of the scrum
d.	A front-row player must not intentionally collapse a scrum
20.	Dangerous play in a ruck or maul.
a.	A player must not charge into a ruck or maul. Charging includes any contact made
without binding onto another player in the ruck or maul
b.	A player must not make contact with an opponent above the line of the shoulders.
c.	A player must not intentionally collapse a ruck or a maul
21.	A player must not retaliate
22.	Teams must not use the 'cavalry charge’ or 'flying wedge'
23.	A player must not attempt to kick the ball from the hands of the ball-carrier.
2A. A ball-carrier is permitted to hand off an opponent provided excessive force is not used.
Sanction: Penalty.
25. A player must not intentionally charge or obstruct an opponent who has just kicked the
ball.
Sanction: Penalty. The non-offending team chooses to take the penalty either:
a.	At the place of the infringement; or
b.	Where the ball lands or is next played but not nearer than 15 metres from the
touchline, or
c.	If the ball is kicked directly into touch, on the 15-metre line in line with where the
ball crossed the touchline; or
d.	If the ball lands in m-goal. touch-in-goal or on or over the dead-ball line, five
metres from the goal line in line with where the ball crossed the goal line and at
least 15 metres from the touchline, or
e.	If the ball hits a goal post or crossbar, where the ball lands.
53 WORLD RUGBY
LAW 9 Foul play
WORLD
RUGBY.
MISCONDUCT
2 6. A player must not do anything that is against the spirit of good sportsmanship.
27.	Players must respect the authority of the referee They must not dispute the referee’s
decisions. They must stop playing immediately when the referee blows the whistle to
stop play.
Sanction: Penalty
YELLOW AND RED CARDS
28.	When a player is being cautioned and suspended for 10 minutes, the referee will show
that player a yellow card, if that player later commits another yellow-card offence, the
player must be sent off
29.	When a player is being sent off, the referee will show that player a red card and the
player will take no further part in the match. A player sent off may not be replaced.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2018 5^
RUGBY,
LAW 10 Offside and onside in open play
PRINCIPLE
The game is played only by players who are onside
OFFSIDE AND ONSIDE IN OPEN PLAY
1.	A player is offside in open play if that player is in front of a team-mate who is carrying the
ball or who last played it An offside player must not interfere with play. This includes:
a.	Playing the ball
b.	Tackling the ball-carrier.
c.	Preventing the opposition from playing as they wish.
2.	A player can be offside anywhere in the playing area
3.	A player who receives an unintentional throw forward is not offside.
An offside player may be penalised, if that player.
a.	Interferes with play, or
b.	Moves forwards towards the ball, or
c.	Was in front of a team-mate who kicked the ball and fails to retire immediately to
an imaginary line across the field 10 metres on that player’s side from where the
ball is caught or lands, even if it hits a goal post or crossbar first. If this involves
more than one player, then the player closest to where the ball lands or is caught is
the one penalised. This is known as the 10-metre law and still applies if the ball
touches or is played by an opponent but not when the kick is charged down.
Sanction: The non-offending team can choose either:
i.	Penalty at the place of infringement; or
ii.	Scrum where the offending ream last played the ball.
5.	A player is accidentally offside if the player cannot avoid being touched by the ball or by
a team-mate who is carrying the ball. Only if the offending ream gains an advantage
should play stop Sanction: Scrum
55 WORLD RUGBY
LAW 10 Offside and onside in open play
WORLD
RUGBY,
6.	Other than under Law 10.^c, an offside player can be put onside when:
a.	That player
i.	Moves behind a team-mate who last played the ball; or
ii. Moves behind a team-mate who is onside.
b.	An onside team-mate of that player moves past the offside player and is within or
has re-entered the playing area.
c.	An opponent of that player
i. Carries the ball five metres; or
ii. Passes the ball, or
iii.	Kicks the ball; or
iv.	Ini ent ionally touches the ball without gaining possession of it.
7.	A player offside under Law 10. Ac cannot be put onside by any action of an opponent,
apart from a charge down.
Player made onside by team-mate
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2018 56
RUGBY,
LAW 10 Offside and onside in open play
Player put onside by opponents
RETIRING FROM A RUCK, MAUL, SCRUM OR LINEOUT
8.	A player who is offside at a ruck, maul, scrum or lineout remains offside, even after the
ruck, maul, scrum or lineout has ended.
9.	The player can be put onside only if:
a.	That player immediately retires behind the applicable offside line, or
b.	An opposition player carries the ball five metres in any direction; or
c.	An opposition player kicks the ball.
10.	An offside player may be penalised if that player
a.	Fails to retire without undue delay and benefits from being put onside in a more
advantageous position; or
b.	Interferes with play; or
c.	Moves towards the ball
Sanction: Penalty.
57 WORLD RUGBY
LAW 11 Knock-on or throw forward
vt)
WORLD
RUGBY,
KNOCK-ON
1. A knock-on may occur anywhere in the playing area.
2.	It is a knock-on when a player, in tackling or attempting to tackle an opponent, makes
contact with the ball and the ball goes forward. Sanction: Scrum
3.	A player must not intentionally knock the ball forward with hand or arm.
Sanction: Penalty.
A. It is not an intentional knock-on if, in the act of trying to catch the ball, the player knocks
on provided that there was a reasonable expectation that rhe player could gain
possession.
5.	The ball is not knocked-on, and play continues, if.
a.	A player knocks the ball forward immediately after an opponent has kicked it
(charge down).
b.	A player rips or knocks the ball from an opponent and the ball goes forward from
the opponent's hand or arm.
Knock-on Charge down
THROW FORWARD
6.	A throw forward may occur anywhere in the playing area. Sanction: Scrum
7.	A player must not intentionally throw or pass the ball forward Sanction: Penalty.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2018 58
1)
WORLD
RUGBY.
LAW 12 Kick-off and restart kicks
PRINCIPLE
Kick-offs are used to start each half of the match or period of extra-time. Restart kicks resume
play after a score or touch-down.
1.	All kick-offs and restart kicks are drop kicks. Sanction: The non -kicking team has the
option of the kick being retaken or a scrum.
Kick-off
59 WORLD RUGBY
LAW 12 Kick-off and restart kicks
0)
WORLD
RUGBY.
KICK-OFFS AND RESTART KICKS FOLLOWING A SCORE
2.	Kick-offs are taken on or behind the centre of the half-way line. Sanction: The non-
kicking team has the option of the kick being retaken or a scrum.
3.	The opponents of I he team who kicked off the match start the second half.
4.	After a team has scored, their opponents restart play on or behind the centre of the half-
way line. Sanctior: The non kicking ream has the option of the kick being retaken or a
scrum
5.	When the ball is kicked:
a.	Team-mates of the kicker must be behind the ball Sanction: Scrum.
b.	Opposition players must be on or behind the 10-metre line.
Sar ion: .? kick is retaken.
6.	The ball must reach the 10-metre line. Sanction: The non-kicking team has the option
of the kick being retaken or a scrum
7.	If the ball reaches the 10-metre line but is then blown back or if an opponent plays the
ball before it reaches the 10-metre line, play continues.
8.	If the ball goes directly into touch, the non-kicking team chooses one of the following-
a.	The kick being retaken.
b.	Scrum.
c.	Lineout.
d.	Quick-throw.
9.	If the ball is kicked into the opponents’ in-goal without touching any player and an
opponent grounds the ball without delay or it goes dead through in-goal, the non-kicking
team has the option of having the kick retaken or a scrum
10.	If the ball is kicked into the kicking team’s own in-goal and is made dead by a defending
player or it goes dead through in-goal, the non-kicking team is awarded a five-metre
scrum.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2018 60
WORLD
RUGBY,
LAW 12 Kick-off and restart kicks
RESTART KICKS FOLLOWING A TOUCH-DOWN (22-METRE DROP-OUT)
11.	Apart from at a kick-off or restart kick, if the ball is played or taken into m-goal by an
attacking player and is made dead by an opponent, play is restarted with a 2 2 -metre
drop-out
12.	A 22-metredrop-out.
a.	Is taken anywhere on or behind the defending team’s 22-metre line
Sanction: Scrum.
b. Must be taken without delay. Sanction: Free-kick.
c.	Must cross the 22-metre line Sanction: The non-kicking team *as i he option of
the kick being retaken or a scrum
d.	Must not go directly into touch. Sanction: The opposing team < nooses one of the
following:
i.	The drop-out being retaken, or
ii.	A scrum; or
iii.	A lineout, or
iv.	A quick-throw
13.	An opponent must not charge over the 22-metre line before the ball is kicked
Sanction: Free-kick.
1 A. An opponent, who is inside the kicker’s 22, may not delay or obstruct the drop-out.
Sanction: Penalty.
61 WORLD RUGBY
LAW 12 Kick-off and restart kicks
WORLD
RUGBY,
15.	If the ball crosses the 2 2-metre line but is then blown back, play continues.
16.	If the ball does not cross the 22-metre line, advantage may apply.
17.	If a 22-metre drop-out reaches the opponents’ in-goal without touching any player and
an opponent grounds the ball without delay or it goes into touch in-goal or on or over
the dead-ball line, the non-kicking team has the option of having the kick retaken or a
scrum.
18.	The team-mates of the kicker must be behind the ball when it is kicked Those who are in
front of the ball when it is kicked may be sanctioned unless they retire and do not
interfere with play until they are put onside by rhe actions of a team-mate
Sanction: Sc um.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2018 62
WORLD
RUGBY,
LAW 13 Players on the ground in open play
PRINCIPLE
The game is played only by players who are on their feet.
1. Players, who go to ground to gather the ball or who go to ground with the ball, must
immediately:
a.	Get up with the ball; or
b.	Play (but not kick) the ball; or
c.	Release the ball
Sanction: Penalty.
2.	Once the ball is played or released, players on the ground must immediately either move
away from the ball or get up. Sanction: Penalty
3.	A player on the ground without the ball is out of the game and must
a.	Allow opponents who are not on the ground to play or gain possession of the ball.
b.	Not play the ball
c.	Not tackle or attempt to tackle an opponent.
Sanction: Penalty
Players on their feet and without the ball must not fall on or over players on the ground
who have the ball or who are near it Sanction: Penalty
No player may fall on or over a tackled player
63 WORLD RUGBY
I
LAW 1 k Tackle
Ll)
WORLD
RUGBY,

A tackle can take place anywhere in rhe field of play. The actions of players involved in the
tackle must ensure a fair contest and allow the ball to be available for play immediately.
Tackle
REQUIREMENTS FOR A TACKLE
1. For a tackle to occur, the ball-carrier is held and brought to ground by one or more
opponents.
2.	Bemg brought to ground means that the ball-carrier is lying, sitting or has at least one
knee on the ground or on another player who is on the ground.
3.	Being held means that a tackler must continue holding the ball-carrier until the ball-
carrier is on the ground.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2018 6^
LAW 14 Tackle
RUGBY.
PLAYERS IN A TACKLE
Players in a tackle are:
a.	Tackled player
b.	Tackler(s).
c.	Others:
i.	Player(s) who hold the ball-carrier during a tackle but do not go to ground.
ii.	Player(s) who arrive to contest possession in the tackle.
iii.	Player(s) who are already on the ground.
PLAYER RESPONSIBILITIES
5.	Tacklers must-
a.	Immediately release the ball and the ball-carrier after both players go to ground.
b.	Immediately move away from the tackled player and from the ball or get up.
c.	Be on their feet before attempting to play the ball.
d.	Allow the tackled player to release or play the ball.
e.	Allow the tackled player to move away from the ball
Sanction: Penalty.
6.	Tacklers may play the ball from any direction provided they have complied with rhe
above responsibilities and a ruck has not formed.
7.	Tackled players must immediately:
a.	Make the ball available so that play can continue by releasing, passing or pushing
the ball in any direction except forward They may place the ball in any direction.
b.	Move away from the ball or get up.
c.	Ensure that they do not lie on, over or near the ball to prevent opposition players
from gaining possession of it.
Sanction: Penalty.
65 WORLD RUGBY
LAW 1 h Tackle
<0
WORLD
RUGBY,
Tackled player must release the ball immediately
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2018 66
1)
WORLD
RUGBY,
LAW 1*< Tackle
8.	Other players must:
a.	Remain on their feet and release the ball and the ball-carrier immediately.
b.	Remain on their feet when they play the ball.
c.	Arrive at the tackle from the direction of their own goal line before playing the ball.
d.	Not play the ball or attempt to tackle an opponent while on the ground near the
tackle.
Sanction: Penalty.
After a tackle all of the players must be on their feet when they play the ball
Player off feet and playing the ball at the tackle
67 WORLD RUGBY
LAW 14 Tackle

WORLD
RUGBY.
Player off feet and playing the ball at the tackle
9.	Any player who gains possession of rhe balk
a. Must play it immediately, by moving away, or by passing or kicking the ball.
b.	Must remain on their feet, and not go to ground at or near the tackle unless
tackled by the opposition
c.	May be tackled, provided the tackler does so from the direction of their own goal
line.
Sanction: Penalty
10.	The tackle ends when:
a.	A ruck is formed.
b. A player on their feet from either team gains possession of the ball and moves
away or passes or kicks the ball.
c.	The ball leaves the tackle area
d.	The ball is unplayable. If there is doubt about which player did not conform to law.
the referee orders a scrum. The throw is taken by the team moving forward prior
to the stoppage or, if no team was moving forward, by the attacking team.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2018 68
WORLD
RUGBY,
LAW 15 Ruck
PRINCIPLE
The purpose of a ruck is to allow players to compete for the ball which is on the ground.
Ruck
69 WORLD RUGBY
LAW 15 Ruck
WORLD
RUGBY,
FORMING A RUCK
1.	A ruck can take place only in the field of play
2.	A ruck is formed when at least one player from each team are in contact, on their feet
and over the ball which is on the ground.
3.	Players involved in all stages of the ruck must have their heads and shoulders no lower
than their hips. S : ion: Free-kick.
OFFSIDE AT,
A. Each team has an offside
line that runs parallel to
the goal line through the
ruck participants’
hindmost foot. If that
foot is on or behind the
goal line, the offside line
for that team is the goal
line.
At a ruck or maul, the offside line runs through the hindmost foot of the player of
the same team. The player in the yellow jersey on the right-hand side is offside.
JOINING A RUCK
5.	An arriving player must be on their feet and join from behind their offside line.
6.	A player may join alongside but not in front of the hindmost player.
7.	A player must bind onto a team-mate or an opposition player. The bind must precede or
be simultaneous with contact with any other part of the body.
8.	Players must join the ruck or retire behind their offside line immediately.
9.	Players who have previously been part of the ruck may rejoin the ruck, provided they do
so from an onside position.
Sanction: Penalty.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2018 70
WORLD
RUGBY,
LAW 15 Ruck
DURING A RUCK
10.	Possession may be won either by rucking or by pushing the opposing team off the ball.
11.	Once a ruck has formed, no player may handle the ball unless they were able to get their
hands on lhe ball before the ruck formed and stay on their feet.
12.	Players must endeavour to remain on their feet throughout the ruck.
13.	All players in a ruck must be caught in or bound to it and not just alongside it
1 A. Players may play the ball with their feet, provided they do so in a safe manner.
15.	Players on the ground must attempt to move away from the ball and must not play the
ball in the ruck or as it emerges.
16.	Players must not.
a.	Pick the ball up with their legs
b.	Intentionally collapse a ruck or jump on top of it.
c.	Intentionally step on another player.
d.	Fall over the ball as it is coming out of a ruck.
Sanction: Penalty.
e.	Return the ball into the ruck
f.	Take any action to make opponents believe that the ruck has ended when it has
not.
Sanction: Freekick
ENDING A RUCK
17.	When the ball has been clearly won by a team at the ruck, and is available to be played,
the referee calls “use it", after which the ball must be played away from the ruck within
five seconds Sanction: Scrum.
18.	The ruck ends and play continues when the ball leaves the ruck or when the ball in the
ruck is on or over the goal line.
19.	The ruck ends when the ball becomes unplayable. If the referee decides that the ball will
probably not emerge within a reasonable time, a scrum is awarded.
71 WORLD RUGBY
LAW 16 Maul
WORLD
RUGBY.
PRINCIPLE
The purpose of a maul
is to allow players to
compete for the ball,
which is held off the
ground.
FORMING A MAUL
1.	A maul can take place only in the field of play.
2.	It consists of a ball-carrier and at least one player from each team, bound together and
on their feet.
3. Once formed, a maul must move towards a goal line.
Maul not formed
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2018 72
1)
WORLD
RUGBY.
LAW 16 Maul
OFFSIDE AT A MAUL
9. Each team has an offside line that runs parallel to the goal line through the maul
participants’ hindmost foot that is nearest to that team’s goal line. If that foot is on or
behind the goal line, the offside line for that team is the goal line
5.	A player must either join a maul from an onside position or retire behind their offside line
immediately Sanction: Penalty.
6.	Players who leave a maul must immediately retire behind the offside line. These players
may re-join the maul. Sanction: Penalty.
JOINING A MAUL
7.	Players joining a maul must.
a.	Do so from an onside position.
b.	Bind on to the hindmost player in the maul
Sanction: Penalty
c.	Have their heads and shoulders no lower than their hips. Sanction: Free-kick.
DURING A MAUL
8.	The ball-carrier in a maul may go to ground provided that player makes the ball available
immediately Sanction: Scrum
9.	All other players in a maul must endeavour to stay on their feet.
10. All players in a maul must be caught in or bound to it and not just alongside it.
11.	Players must not.
a.	Intentionally collapse a maul or jump on top of it.
b.	Attempt to drag an opponent out of a maul.
Sanction: Penalty.
c.	Take any action to make opponents believe that the maul has ended when it has
not Sanction: Free-kick.
12.	When players of the team who are not in possession of the ball intentionally leave the
maul such that there are no players of that team left in the maul, the maul continues
73 WORLD RUGBY
LAW 16 Maul
(I)
WORLD
RUGBY,
13.	When all players of the team who are not in possession of the ball intentionally leave the
maul, they may re-join provided that the first player binds on the frontmost player of the
team in possession of the ball. Sanction: Penalty.
1 When a maul has stopped moving towards a goal line for more than five seconds but the
ball is being moved and the referee can see it, the referee instructs rhe players to use the
ball. The team in possession must then use rhe ball within a reasonable time
Sanction: Scrum.
15.	When a maul has stopped moving towards a goal line, it may restart moving towards a
goal line providing it does so within five seconds. If it stops a second time but the ball is
being moved and the referee can see it, the referee instructs the team ro use the ball
The team in possession must then use the ball in a reasonable time. Sanction: Scrum.
ENDING
16.	A maul ends and play continues when:
a.	The ball or ball-carrier leaves the maul.
b.	The ball is on the ground.
c.	The ball is on or over the goal line.
17.	A maul ends unsuccessfully when .
a.	The ball becomes unplayable.
The maul collapses (not as a result of foul play).
The maul does not move towards a goal line for longer than five seconds and the
ball does not emerge.
b.
c.
d.	The ball-carrier goes to ground and the ball is not immediately available.
e.	The ball is available to be played, the referee has called "use it” and it has not been
played within five seconds of the call.
Sanction: Scrum.
18.	If a maul is formed immediately after a player has directly caught an opponent’s kick in
open play, a scrum that is awarded for any of the above reasons will be to the team of
the ball catcher.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2018 7^
LAW 17 Mark
WORLD
RUGBY,
PRINCIPLE
A means of stopping play within a player’s own 2 2 by directly catching an opponent’s kick.
CLAIMING A MARK
1.	To claim a mark, a player must:
a.	Have at least one foot on or behind their own 2 2-metre line when catching the
ball or when landing having caught it in the air, and
b.	Catch the ball directly from an opponent’s kick before it touches the ground or
another player; and
c.	Simultaneously call “mark".
2.	A player may claim a mark even if the ball hits a goal post or crossbar before being
caught.
3.	When a mark is called correctly, the referee immediately stops the game and awards a
free-kick to the team in possession
h. A mark may not be claimed from a kick-off or a restart kick after a score.
75 WORLD RUGBY
LAW 17 Mark
(1)
WORLD
RUGBY.
RESTARTING PLAY AFTER A MARK
5.	The player who claimed the mark takes the free-kick (in accordance with Law 20).
6.	If the player is unable to take the free-kick within one minute, a scrum is awarded to the
team in possession.
7.	The free kick is taken at the following locations:
Place of thqjbarkffi Location of free-kick
Within the 22 Within the in-goal	At the place of the mark but at least five metres from the goal line, in line with the place of the mark. On the five-metre line in line with the place of the mark
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2018 76
WORLD
LAW 18 Touch, quick throw and lineout
RUGBY.
PRINCIPLE
The field of play has side boundaries known as touchlines When play reaches a touchline, the
ball is in touch and becomes dead.
Quick-throws and lineouts are methods of restarting the game with a throw after the ball or
ball-carrier has gone into touch
TOUCH OR TOUCH-IN-GOAL
1. The ball is in touch or touch-m-goal when:
a.	The ball or ball-carrier touches the touchline, touch-in-goal line or anything
beyond.
b.	A player, who is already touching the touchline, touch-in-goal line or anything
beyond, catches or holds the ball
2. The ball is not in touch or touch-in-goal if
a. The ball reaches the plane of touch but is caught, knocked or kicked by a player
who is in the playing area
b.	A player jumps, from within or outside the playing area, and catches the ball, and
then lands in the playing area, regardless of whether the ball reached the plane of
touch.
c.	A player, who is in touch, kicks or knocks the ball, but does not hold it, provided it
has not reached the plane of touch.
QUICK THROW
3.	A player who carries the ball into touch must release the ball immediately so that a quick
throw may be taken Sanction: Penalty.
A. At a quick throw, the ball is thrown in:
a. Between the mark of touch and the thrower’s own goal line; and
b.	Parallel to or towards the thrower’s own goal line, and
c.	So that it reaches the five-metre line before it touches the ground or hits a player;
and
d.	By a player whose feet are both outside the field of play.
Sanction: Option of lineout or scrum.
77 WORLD RUGBY
LAW 18 Touch, quick throw and lineout
WORLD
RUGBY-
5.	A quick throw is disallowed and a lineout is awarded to the same team if:
a. A lineout had already been formed, or
b. The ball had been touched after it went into touch by anyone other than the
player throwing in or the player who carried the ball into touch; or
c.	A different ball is used from rhe one that originally went into touch
6.	The ball must reach the five-metre line before it is played and a player must not prevent
the ball from travelling five metres. Sanction: Free-kick.
7.	If the mark of touch is outside the 22, the defending team may take the quick throw
inside the 22 but is deemed to have taken the ball into the 22.
Quick throw-in
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2018 78
LAW 18 Touch, quick throw and lineout
M1)
WORLD
WORLD
RUGBY,
LINEOUT
8.	Where the game is restarted with a lineout and which team throws in is determined as
follows:
a. General
Event
Location of the mark of
touch
The ball-carrier goes into touch.	Where the player touches the touchline or the ground beyond it.	The opposition.
A player unintentionally knocks, passes or throws the ball into touch.	Where the ball reaches the touchline.	The opposition.
The ball hits a player and goes directly into touch.	Where the ball reaches the touchline or at the point on the touchline closest to where the ball hit the player, whichever is nearer to that player’s goal line.	The opposition.
The ball hits a player and it bounces into touch	Where the ball reaches the touchline.	The opposition.
A player, who is In touch. picks up a moving ball	Where that player is standing.	Whoever would have thrown in if the ball had continued to the touch line.
A player who ism touch picks up a stationary ball.	Where that player is standing.	The opposition.
79 WORLD RUGBY
LAW 18 Touch, quick throw and lineout
(f)
WORLD
RUGBY,
b. Ball is kicked directly into touch from a kick-off or restart kick
The ball goes directly into
touch from a 22 drop-out.
The ball goes directly into
touch from a kick-off or
restart kick following a score
Location ofthe mark of Whothrowsin
touch
If the touch option is taken, the throw is where the ball reaches the touchline or on rhe half-way line, whichever is nearer to the kicker’s goal line.	The non-kicking team.
If the touch option is taken, then rhe throw is where the ball reaches the touchline or on rhe 22-metreline. whichever is nearer to the kicker’s goal line.	The non-kicking team
c.	Ball is kicked from a penalty
Location ofthe mark of Whothrowsin
touch
A player kicks the ball into touch (either directly or first bouncing in the field of play or hitting a player or the referee).	Where the ball reaches the touchline	The kicking team.
A player, who is in touch, catches the ball irrespective of whether the ball has reached the touchline.	Where the ball reaches the touchline or, if the ball hasn’t reached the touchline, where the player catching the ball is standing	The kicking team.
A player, who is in touch, picks up a moving ball that has not reached the touchline.	Where that player is standing	The kicking team.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2018 80
J)
WORLD
RUGBY,
LAW 18 Touch, quick throw and lineout
d. Ball is kicked directly into touch from within own 2 2 or in-goal
Event	Location of the mark of touch	Who throws in
i NO GAIN IN GROUND		
The defending team took the ball into their 22.no tackle, ruck or maul took place and no opponent touched the ball within the 22.		
A player kicks the ball directly into touch.	Where the ball reaches the touchline or on the touchline in line with where the ball was kicked, whichever is nearer to the kicker’s goal line.	The non-kicking team.
An opposition player, who is in touch, catches the ball	Where the ball reaches the touchline or on the touchline in line with where the ball was kicked, whichever is nearer to the kicker’s goal line.	The non-kicking team.
GAININGROUND		
Either the defending team did not take the ball into their 2 2 or a tackle, ruck or maul took place within the 22 or an opponent touched the ball within the 22.		
A player kicks the ball directly into touch.	Where the ball reaches the touchline.	The non-kicking team.
An opposition player, who is in touch, catches the ball.	Where the ball reaches the touchline	The non-kicking team.
A player kicks the ball from a free-kick awarded within the 22	Where the ball reaches the touchline.	The non-kicking team
81 WORLD RUGBY
LAW 18 Touch, quick throw and lineout
(I)
WORLD
RUGBY.
e. Ball is kicked directly into touch from outside the 22
Location of the mark of
touch
Who throws in
A player kicks the ball
directly into touch from
open play or from a free-
kick.
Where the ball reaches the
touchline or on the touchline
in line with where the ball
was kicked, whichever is
nearer to that player's goal
line. No gain in ground.
The non-kicking team
f. Lineout options
4- LU	Location of the mark of touch	Who throws in
Following an incorrect throw	Where the original lineout look place.	The opposition.
Following a disallowed quick throw.	Where the formed lineout would have taken place if the quick throw had not been taken	The same team.
Following an incorrect quick throw	Where the incorrect throw was taken.	The opposition
Following the ball going into touch from a knock-on or throw forward	Where the ball reached the touchline.	The opposition.
From a penalty or free-kick awarded for a lineout infringement.	Where the original lineout took place	The opposition.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2018 82
WORLD
RUGBY,
LAW 18 Touch, quick throw and lineout
Gain in ground
83 WORLD RUGBY
WORLD
RUGBY.
LAW 18 Touch, quick throw and lineout
FORMING A LINEOUT
9.	A lineout is formed on the mark of touch.
10.	Each team forms a single line parallel to and half a metre from the mark of touch on
their side of the lineout between the five-metre and 15-metre lines. The gap between
the lines must be maintained until the ball is thrown in Sanction: Free-kick
11.	A minimum of two players from each team are required to form a lineout
The lineout
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2018 8^
WORLD
RUGBY,
LAW 18 Touch, quick throw and lineout
12.	Teams form the lineout without delay Sanction: Free-kick.
13.	The team throwing in determines the maximum number of players that each team may
have in the lineout.
1 9. Unless the throw is taken as soon as the lineout is formed, the non-throwing team may
not have more players (but may have fewer players) in the lineout than the throwing
team. Sanction: Free-kick
15.	The non-throwing team must have a player between the touchline and the five-metre
line The player stands two metres from the mark of touch on their team’s side of the
lineout and two metres from the five-metre line. Sanction: Free
16.	If a team elects to have a receiver, the receiver stands between the five-metre and the
15-metre lines, two metres away from their team-mates in the lineout. Each team may
have only one receiver Sanction: Free-kick.
17.	Once the lineout is formed, players
a.	From the team throwing in may not leave the lineout other than to change
positions with other participating players
b.	From the non-throwing team may leave the lineout only to ensure that they do
not have more players than the opposition
Sanction: Freekick
18.	Participating players may change places in the lineout before the ball is thrown.
19.	Players in the lineout who are going to lift or support a team-mate jumping for the ball
may pre-grip that team-mate providing they do not grip below the shorts from behind or
below the thighs from the front Sanction: Free-kick.
20.	Players must not jump or be lifted or supported before the ball has left the hands of the
player throwing in. Sanction: Free-kick.
21.	Players must not make any contact with an opponent before the ball is thrown in
Sanction: Penalty
85 WORLD RUGBY
WORLD
RUGBY.
LAW 18 Touch, quick throw and lineout
THROWING INTO A LINEOUT
22. The player throwing in
the ball stands on the
mark of touch with
both feet outside the
field of play The
thrower must not step
into the field of play
until the ball has been
thrown.
Sanction: 0[ tion c
lineout or scrum.
23. The ball must:
a. Be thrown in
straight along the
mark of touch;
and
b. Reach the five-
metre line before
it hits the ground
Players must not
step into the field of
play when throwing
in the ball
Ball must be thrown so that it travels
I at least five metres before it first
touches the ground or touches or is
touched by a player
or is played
Sanction: Option of lineout or scrum. If the lineout is chosen and the ball is again not thrown
straight, a scrum is awarded to the team that originally threw in the ball
c. Be thrown in without delay once the lineout is formed. Sanction: Free-kick.
2U. The thrower must not pretend to throw the ball. Sanction: Free kick.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2018 86
WORLD
RUGBY,
LAW 18 Touch, quick throw and lineout
DURING A LINEOUT
25.	The lineout commences once the ball leaves the hands of the thrower
26.	Once the lineout has commenced, the thrower and the thrower’s immediate opponent
may
a.	loin the lineout.
b.	Retire to the offside line of the non-participating players of his own team.
c.	Slay within five metres of the touchline.
d.	Move to the receiver position if that position is empty.
27.	If those players move anywhere else, they are offside Sanction: Pc !ty.
28.	Once the lineout has commenced, any player in the lineout may:
a.	Compete for possession of the ball.
b.	Catch or deflect the ball. A jumper may catch or deflect the ball with the outside
arm only if they have both hands above their head Sanction
c.	Lift or support a player from the same team. Players who support or lift a team-
mate must lower the player to the ground safely as soon as the ball is won by a
player of either team. Sanction: Free-kick
d.	Leave the lineout so as to be in a position to receive the ball, provided they remain
within 10 metres of the mark of touch and they keep moving until the lineout is
over. Sanction: Free-kick
e.	Grasp and bring an opponent in possession of the ball to ground, provided that
the player is not in the air Sanction: Penalty.
OFFSIDE AT A LINEOUT
29.	All lineout players are onside if they remain on their side of the mark of touch until the
ball has been thrown in and touched a player or the ground.
30.	Players jumping for the ball who cross the mark of touch and do not catch rhe ball must
immediately return to their own side.
31.	Until the ball is thrown in. and has touched the player or the ground, the offside line for
lineout players is the mark of touch After that, their offside line is a line through the ball.
87 WORLD RUGBY
LAW 18 Touch, quick throw and lineout
WORLD
RUGBY.
No levering on an opponent
No holding or shoving
No blocking the throw
No illegal charging
Pre-gripping is
permitted
Lifting of lineout
players is permitted
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2018 88
WORLD
RUGBY,
LAW 18 Touch, quick throw and lineout
32.	When a ruck or maul forms at the mark of touch, a participating player may either:
a.	Join the ruck or maul; or
b.	Retire to the offside line, which is the hindmost foot of that player’s team in the
ruck or maul.
33.	Once the ball has been thrown, a lineout player may move beyond the 1 5-metre line. If
the ball does not go beyond the 15-metre line, the player must immediately return to
the lineout.
3A. Players not participating in the lineout must remain at least 10 metres from the mark of
touch on their own team's side or behind the goal line if this is nearer. If the ball is thrown
in before a player is onside, the player will not be liable to sanction if the player
immediately retires to the onside position. The player cannot be pur onside by the action
of any other player.
35.	Once the ball has been thrown in by a team-mate, players who are not participating in
the lineout may move forward. If that occurs, then their opponents may also move
forward. If the ball does not go beyond the 15-metre line, the players will not be liable to
sanction if they immediately retire to their respective offside lines.
Sanction: Penalty
ENDING A LINEOUT
36.	The lineout ends when:
a. The ball or a player in possession of the ball.
i.	leaves the lineout; or
ii.	enters the area between the touchline and the five-metre line; or
iii.	goes beyond the 15-metre line.
b. A ruck or maul forms and all of the feet of all of the players in the ruck or maul
move beyond the mark of touch.
c.	The ball becomes unplayable.
37.	Other than by moving to the receiver position if that position is empty, no lineout player
may leave the lineout until it has ended Sanction: Penalty.
89 WORLD RUGBY
1)
WORLD
RUGBY,
LAW 19 Scrum
PRINCIPLE
The purpose of a scrum is to restart play with a contest for possession after a minor
infringement or stoppage
1. Where the game is restarted with a scrum and which team throws in is determined as
follows
Infringement /stoppage Location of scrum Who throws in
A knock-on or throw forward, apart from at a lineout.	In the scrum zone at the point closest to rhe place of infringement.	The non-offending team.
A knock-on or throw forward at a lineout; incorrect throw at a lineout; incorrect quick throw	15 metres in from the mark of touch.	The non-offending team.
Offside m open play (scrum option)	In the scrum zone at the point closest to where the offending team last played the ball.	The non-offending team.
A penalty or free-kick (scrum option)	In the scrum zone at the point closest to where the infringement rook place.	The non-offending team.
The ball is taken into in- goal by the defending team and made dead.	In the scrum zone at the point closest to where the ball was made dead.	The attacking team.
An unplayable tackle or ruck.	In the scrum zone ar the point closest to where the tackle or ruck took place.	The team last moving forward. If neither team was moving forward, the attacking team.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2018 90
WORLD
RUGBY,
LAW 19 Scrum
Infringement / stoppage	Location of scrum	Who throws in
A maul that ends unsuccessfully.	In the scrum zone at the point closest to where the maul ended.	The team notin possession at the start of the maul. If the referee cannot decide which team had possession, the team moving forward before the maul stopped. If neither team was moving forward, the attacking team.
An unplayable maul after kick in open play	In the scrum zone at the point nearest to place of maul	The team in possession at the start of the maul.
An incorrect kick-off or restart kick (scrum option).	At the middle point of the half-way line or 2 2-metre line if the restart kick was a 22 drop out	The non-kicking team.
Failure to “use it" at scrum. ruck or maul.	In the scrum zone at the point closest to where the scrum, ruck or maul took place.	The team not in possession.
The ball or ball-carrier touches the referee and either team gams an advantage.	In the scrum zone at rhe point closest to the incident.	The team that last played the ball
Stoppage due to injury.	In the scrum zone at the point where the ball was last played	The team last in possession.
Reset scrum - no infringement.	Where the original scrum took place.	The team originally awarded the scrum.
A penalty attempt at goal not taken within the time limit.	In the scrum zone at the point closest to where the penalty was awarded.	The non-offending team.
91 WORLD RUGBY
LAW 19 Scrum
WORLD
RUGBY,
Infringement / stoppage Location of scrum Who throws in
A player unable to take a free-kick after a mark within one minute	In the scrum zone at the point closest to where the free-kick was awarded.	Team of player who was awarded the free- kick
The referee awards a scrum for any other reason not covered in law	In the scrum zone at the point closest to the place of stoppage.	The team that was last moving forward or, if neither team was moving forward, the attacking team
FORMING A SCRUM
2.	A scrum is formed in the scrum zone at a mark indicated by the referee.
3.	The referee makes the mark to create the middle line of the scrum, which runs parallel to
the goal lines.
Teams must be ready to form the scrum within 30 seconds of the mark being made.
Sanction: Free-kick.
5.	When both teams have 15 players, eight players from each team bind together in
formation as outlined in the diagram. Each team must have two props and one hooker in
the front row and two locks in the second row. Three back-row players from each team
complete the scrum Sanction: Penally
6.	When a team is reduced to fewer than 15 for any reason, then the number of players in
each team in the scrum may be similarly reduced. Where a permitted reduction is made
by one team, there is no requirement for the other team to make a similar reduction
However, a team must not have fewer than five players in the scrum.
7.	The players in the scrum bind in the following way:
a.	The props bind to the hooker.
b.	The hooker binds with both arms. This can be either over or under the arms of the
props.
c.	The locks bind with the props immediately in front of them and with each other.
d.	All other players in the scrum bind on a lock’s body with at least one arm.
Sanction: Penalty.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2018 92
LAW 19 Scrum
WORLD
RUGBY,
Scrum
93 WORLD RUGBY
0)
WORLD
RUGBY.
LAW 19 Scrum
8.	The two groups face each other, either side of and parallel to the middle line.
9.	The two front rows stand not more than an arm’s length apart with the hookers at the
mark.
ENGAGEMENT,
10.	When both sides are square, stable and stationary, the referee calls “crouch".
a.	The front-rows then adopt a crouched position if they have not already done so
Their heads and shoulders are no lower than their hips, a position that is
maintained for the duration of the scrum.
b.	The front-ro ws crouch, ear against ear with their heads to the left of their
immediate opponents’, so that no player’s forehead is up against the forehead of
an opponent.
Sanction: Free
11.	When both sides are square, stable and stationary, the referee calls “bind".
a.	Each loose-head prop binds by placing the left arm inside the right arm of the
opposing tight-head prop.
b.	Each tight-head prop binds by placing the right arm outside the left upper arm of
the opposing loose-head prop
c.	Each prop binds by gripping the back or side of their opponent’s jersey.
d.	All players’ binding is maintained for the duration of the scrum.
Sanction: Penalty.
12.	When both sides are square, stable and stationary, the referee calls “set".
a.	Only then may the teams engage, completing the formation of the scrum and
creating a tunnel into which the ball will be thrown.
b.	All players must be in position and ready to push forward.
c.	Each front-row player must have both their feet on the ground, with their weight
firmly on at least one foot.
d.	Each hooker’s feet must be in line with, or behind, the foremost foot of that team’s
props.
Sanction: Free kick.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2018 9^
LAW 19 Scrum
WORLD
RUGBY
RUGBY,
THROW
13.	The scrum-half chooses which side of the scrum to throw in rhe ball
1 h. The scrum-half holds the ball as shown in the diagram.
15.	When both sides are square, stable and stationary, the referee signals to the scrum-half
to throw in the ball.
16.	The scrum-half throws in the ball:
a.	From the chosen side.
b.	From outside the tunnel.
c.	Without delay
d.	With a single forward movement
e.	At a quick speed.
f.	Straight along the middle line
g.	So that it first touches the ground inside the tunnel.
Sanction: Free kick
Throw-in at the scrum
95 WORLD RUGBY
LAW 19 Scrum
10
WORLD
RUGBY,
DURING A SCRUM
17.	The scrum begins when the ball leaves the hands of the scrum-half
18.	Only when the scrum begins may the teams push. Sanction: Free-kick.
19.	Possession may be gained by pushing rhe opposition backwards and off the ball.
20.	Players may push provided they do so straight and parallel to the ground
Sanction: Penalty.
21.	Front-row players may gain possession by striking for the ball but only once the ball
touches rhe ground in the tunnel. Sanction: Free-kick.
22.	A front-row player striking for the ball may do so with either foot but not both at the
same time.. jnc on: Penalty.
23.	A front-row player must not intentionally kick the ball out of the tunnel from the
direction it was thrown Sanction: Free-kick
2 A. Any player within the scrum may play the ball but only with their feet or lower legs and
they must not lift the ball. Sanction: Penalty.
25.	If a scrum collapses or if a player in the scrum is lifted or is forced upwards out of the
scrum, rhe referee must blow the whistle immediately so that players stop pushing.
26.	When the scrum is stationary and the ball has been available at the back of the scrum for
three-five seconds, the referee calls "use it" The team must then play the ball out of the
scrum immediately. Sanction: Scrum
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2018 96
WORLD
RUGBY,
LAW 19 Scrum
OFFSIDE AT A SCRUM
27.	Players remain onside for the duration of the scrum.
28.	Prior io the start of play in the scrum, the scrum-half of the team not throwing in the ball
stands:
a.	On that team’s side of the middle line next to the opposing scrum-half, or
b.	At least five metres behind the hindmost foot of their team’s last player in the
scrum and remains there until the completion of the scrum.
29.	Once play in the scrum begins, the scrum-half of the team in possession has at least one
foot level with or behind the ball.
30.	Once play in the scrum begins, the scrum-half of the team not in possession:
a.	Takes up a position with both feet behind the ball and close to the scrum or
b.	Permanently retires to a point on the offside line either at that team’s hindmost
foot, or
c.	Permanently retires at least five metres behind the hindmost foot
31.	All players not participating at the scrum remain at least five metres behind the
hindmost foot of their team
32.	When the hindmost foot of a team is in in-goal or within five metres of that team’s goal
line, the offside line for that team’s non-participants is the goal line
Sanction: Penalty
33.	As soon as the scrum ends, offside lines no longer apply.
RESETTING A SCRUM
3^. When there is no infringement, the referee will stop play and reset the scrum if:
a.	The scrum-half throws in the ball and it comes out at either end of the tunnel
b.	The scrum collapses or breaks up before it has otherwise ended.
c.	The scrum is wheeled through more than 90 degrees, so the middle line has
passed beyond a position parallel to the touchline.
d.	Neither side wins possession.
e.	The ball is unintentionally kicked out of the tunnel. Exception: If the ball is
repeatedly kicked out, the referee must treat this as intentional. Sanction: Penalty.
35.	When a scrum is reset, the ball is thrown in by the team that previously threw it in
97 WORLD RUGBY
LAW 19 Scrum
1)
WORLD
RUGBY.
Offside line for red players who
are not in the scrum
Offside line for red scrum-half
■ Offside line for red scrum-half
• Offside line for yellow scrum-half when
not playing ball
• Offside line for yellow players who are
OL not in the scrum
Scrum offside
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2018 98
WORLD
RUGBY,
LAW 19 Scrum
ENDING A SCRUM
36.	The scrum ends:
a. When the ball comes out of the scrum in any direction except the tunnel.
b. When the ball reaches the feet of the hindmost player and it is picked up by that
player or is played by that team’s scrum-half.
c.	When the referee blows the whistle for an infringement.
d.	When the ball in a scrum is on or over the goal line.
DANGEROUS PLAY AND RESTRICTED PRACTICES IN A SCRU
37.	Dangerous play in a scrum includes
a. A front-row charging against the opposition.
b. Pulling an opponent
c.	Intentionally lifting an opponent off their feet or forcing them upwards out of the
scrum.
d.	Intentionally collapsing a scrum
e.	Intentionally falling or kneeling
Sanction: Penalty.
38.	Other restricted practices at a scrum include:
a. Falling on or over the ball immediately after it has emerged from the scrum
b. Scrum half kicking the ball while it is in the scrum.
c.	Non-front-row player holding or pushing an opponent.
Sanction: Penalty.
d.	Bringing the ball back into the scrum once it has left.
e.	Non-front-row players playing the ball in the tunnel.
f.	Scrum-half attempting to make an opponent believe the ball is our of the scrum
when it is not.
Sanction: Free-kick
SCRUM LAW VARIATIONS
39.	A union may implement the under-19 scrum law variations at defined levels of the game
within its jurisdiction.
99 WORLD RUGBY
LAW 20 Penalty and free-kick
D
WORLD
RUGBY,
PRINCIPLE
Penalties and free-kicks are awarded to restart play after infringements.
LOCATION OF A PENALTY OR FREE-KICK
1.	The mark for a penalty or free-kick must be in the field of play and be no closer than five
metres from the goal line, as per the following table.
	Location of penalty or free-kick
While the ball is in play excluding a late charge after a kick.	At the place of infringement.
While the ball is dead.	At the point where play would have restarted or, if that place is on the touchline or within 15 metres of it, the mark is on the 15-metre line, in line with that place. - If play would have restarted with a 2 2 drop-out, rhe mark is anywhere on the 22-metre line (non- offending team decides).
Any infringement that takes place outside the playing area while the ball is in play.	On the 15-metre line, in line with where the offence occurred or if the offence occurred in touch-in-goal or beyond the dead-ball line, on rhe five-metre line, in line with the place of the infringement, but no less than 15 metres from the touchline.
Any infringement in a lineout.	15 metres from the touchline on the mark of touch.
Offside at a phase of play.	At the offending team's offside line.
Any subsequent infringement by the original offending team after the first penalty or free-kick is awarded but before it is taken.	Advanced 10 metres from the original mark.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2018 100
LAW 20 Penalty and free-kick
WORLD
RUGBY,
Infringement	Location of penalty or free-kick
Late charging the kicker.	The opposition chooses either at the place of the infringement, where the ball landed or where the ball was next played. - If the infringement takes place in the kicker’s in- goal, the penalty is taken five metres from the goal line in line with the place of infringement but at least 15 metres from the touchline - The non-offending team may also choose to take the penalty where the ball lands or where it is next played before landing, at least 1 5 metres from the touchline. - If the ball lands in touch, the optional penalty is on the 15-metre line, in line with where it went into touch. - If the ball lands, or is next played before landing, within 15 metres of the touchline, the mark is on the 15-metre line opposite where the ball landed or was played. - If the ball lands in m-goal, in touch-in-goal, or on or over rhe dead-ball line, the optional penalty is five metres from the goal line, in line with the place where the ball crossed the goal line and at least 15 metres from the touchline - If the ball hits a goal post or crossbar, the optional penalty kick is awarded where the ball lands.
101 WORLD RUGBY
LAW 20 Penalty and free-kick
WORLD
RUGBY,
Intentionally throwing or knocking
the ball into touch
Any infringement in m-goal or
within five metres of a goal line.
Location of penalty or free-kick
If the ball is thrown or knocked:
Into touch or touch-in-goal or over the dead-ball
line from the playing area, the mark is where the
infringement occurred but no closer than 15
metres from the touchline and five metres from
the goal line.
Into touch or touch-in-goal from in m-goal, the
mark is on the five-metre line at least 15 metres
from the touchline
Over the dead-ball line from in-goal, the mark is
on the five-metre line in a line with where the
infringement occurred.
In the field of play, five metres from the goal line,
in line with the place of infringement.
2.	A penalty or free-kick is taken from where it is awarded or anywhere behind it on a line
through the mark and parallel to the touchlines. When a penalty or free-kick is taken at
the wrong place, it must be re-taken
OPTIONS AT A PENALTY OR FREE-KICK
3.	A team awarded a penalty or free-kick may instead choose a scrum.
A team awarded a penalty or free-kick at a lineout may instead choose a lineout or a
scrum at the same mark.
TAKING A PENALTY OR FREE-KICK
5.	A penalty or free-kick must be taken without delay.
6.	Any player from the non-offending team may take it, other than for a free-kick awarded
fora mark.
7.	The kicker must use the ball that was in play unless the referee decides it is defective.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2018 102
LAW 20 Penalty and free-kick
RUGBY,
8.	The kicker may punt, drop-kick or place-kick (other than for touch) the ball.
9.	The kicker may kick the ball in any direction.
10.	Other than the placer at a place-kick, the kicker’s team must remain behind the ball until
it has been kicked.
11.	The ball must be kicked a visible distance If the kicker is holding it, it must clearly leave
the hands. If it is on the ground, it must clearly leave the mark. Once the kick has been
successfully taken the kicker may play the ball again.
OPPOSING TEAM AT A PENALTY OR FREE-KICK
12.	When a penalty or free-kick is awarded, the opposing team must immediately retreat 10
metres towards their own goal line or until they have reached their goal line if that is
closer
13.	Even if the penalty or free-kick is taken quickly and the kicker’s team is playing the ball,
opposing players must keep retreating the necessary distance. They may not take part in
the game until they have done so
1 A. If it is taken so quickly that opponents have no opportunity to retreat, they will not be
sanctioned for this. However, they may not take part in the game until they have
retreated 10 metres from the mark or until a team-mate who was 10 metres from the
mark has moved in front of them
15.	The opposing team may not do anything to delay the kick or obstruct the kicker,
including intentionally taking, throwing or kicking the ball out of reach of the team
awarded the penalty. Sanction: Second penalty or free-kick, 10 metres in front of the
original mark. The second penalty or free-kick must not be taken before the referee has
made the mark
103 WORLD RUGBY
LAW 20 Penalty and free-kick
RUGBY-
OPPOSING TEAM AT A FREE-KICK
16.	As soon as the kicker initiates movement to kick, the opposing team may charge and try
to prevent the free-kick being taken by tackling the kicker or to block the kick.
17.	If rhe opposing team charge fairly and prevent the free-kick being taken, the kick is
disallowed Play restarts with a scrum at the mark with the opposing team throwing in.
Penalty kick at goal
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2018 10^
WORLD
RUGBY,
LAW 21 In-goal
GROUNDING THE BALL
1.	The ball can be grounded in in-goal:
a. By holding it and touching the ground with it; or
b. By pressing down on it with a hand or hands, arm or arms, or the front of the
player's body from waist to neck.
2.	Picking up a ball is not grounding it A player may pick up the ball in in-goal and ground it
elsewhere in in-goal
3.	An attacking player grounding the ball in in-goal scores a try.
k. When an attacking player holding the ball grounds the ball in in-goal and simultaneously
makes contact with the touch-m-goal line or the dead-ball line (or anywhere beyond
either), a 22-metre drop-out is awarded to the defending team.
5.	When the ball-carrier grounds the ball in in-goal and simultaneously makes contact with
the touch line (or the ground beyond), the ball is in touch in the field of play and a
lineout is awarded to the opposition.
6.	A defending player grounding the ball in in-goal results in a touch down.
105 WORLD RUGBY
LAW 21 In-goal
0»
WORLD
RUGBY,
7.	If a tackled player has momentum that carries them into their own in-goal area, they can
make a touch down.
8.	A tackled player near their own goal line may reach out and ground the ball in in-goal to
make a touch down, provided it is done immediately Sanction: Penalty.
9.	If a defending player grounds the ball against a goal post or its surrounding padding, the
result is a touch down.
10.	If a player is in touch or touch-in-goal, they can make a touch down or score a try by
grounding the ball in in-goal provided they are not holding the ball.
11.	If a tackled player is in the act of reaching out to ground the ball for a try or touch down,
players may pull the ball from the player’s possession but must not kick or attempt to
kick rhe ball. Sa. :tion: Penalty.
BALL KICKED DEAD THROUGH IN-GOAL
12.	If a team kicks the ball through their opponents’ in-goal from the field of play into touch'
in-goal or on or over the dead-ball line, except by an unsuccessful kick at goal or
attempted dropped goal, the defending team can choose
a. To have a drop-out anywhere on or behind the 22-metre line; or
b. To have a scrum at the place where the ball was kicked.
DEFENDING PLAYER IN IN-GOAL
13.	If any part of a defending player is in in-goal, that player is considered to be in in-goal,
provided they are not also in touch or on or over the dead-ball line.
19. If a player who is in in-goal picks up a stationary ball within the field of play, that player
has taken the ball into in-goal
15.	If a player who is in in-goal picks up a moving ball within the field of play, that player has
not taken the ball into in-goal.
16.	If a player who is on or beyond the dead-ball line or who is in touch-in-goal, picks up a
stationary ball within in-goal, that player is deemed to have made the ball dead.
17.	If a player who is on or beyond the dead-ball line or who is in touch-in-goal, picks up a
moving ball within in-goal, that player is not deemed to have made the ball dead.
LAWS OF THE GAME RUGBY UNION 2018 106

WORLD
RUGBY.
LAW 21 In-goal
CORNER FLAG POST
18.	If the ball or ball-carrier touches a corner flag or corner flag post without otherwise being
in touch or touch-m-goal, play continues unless the ball is grounded against the post
Player touches corner post before ball is grounded
BALL HELD UP IN-GOAL
19.	When a player carrying the ball is held up in the in-goal so that the player cannot ground
or play the ball, the ball is dead. Play restarts with a five-metre scrum, in line with the
place where the player was held up. The attacking team throws in.
DOUBT ABOUT GROUNDING
20.	If there is doubt about which team first grounded the ball in in-goal, play is restarts with a
five-metre scrum, in line with the place where the ball was grounded. The attacking team
throws in.
107 WORLD RUGBY